# Predicting tremor improvement after MRgFUS thalamotomy in essential tremor from preoperative spontaneous brain activity: A machine learning approach

## 预测术前自发性脑活动特发性震颤的 MRgFUS 丘脑切开术后震颤改善：一种机器学习方法

Link: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2095927324005887?dgcid=rss_sd_all

## 摘要翻译
<p>出版日期：2024 年 10 月 15</p><p><b>日 来源：</b>科学通报，第 69 卷，第 19 期</p><p>作者：张东、熊永琴、卢浩轩、段草辉、黄佳玉、李燕、卞祥兵、张德康、周佳友、潘龙生、楼欣</p>


---
# An approach for full space inverse materials design by combining universal machine learning potential, universal property model, and optimization algorithm

## 一种结合通用机器学习潜力、通用属性模型和优化算法的全空间逆材料设计方法

Link: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2095927324004948?dgcid=rss_sd_all

## 摘要翻译
<p>出版日期：2024 年 10 月 15</p><p><b>日 来源：</b>Science Bulletin，第 69 卷，第 19 期</p><p>作者：Guanjian Cheng， Xin-Gao Gong， Wan-Jian Yin</p>


---
# The influence of Ga doping on magnetic properties, magnetocaloric effect, and electronic structure of pseudo-binary GdZn1-xGax (x = 0-0.1)

## Ga 掺杂对伪二元 GdZn1-xGax 磁性能、磁热效应和电子结构的影响 （x = 0-0.1）

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22504

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.22504v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We explore the impact of introducing IIIA-group element Ga in place of IIB-group element Zn in binary intermetallic GdZn on its magnetic and magnetocaloric properties, as well as explicate the modified electronic band structure of the compound. The magnetic transition temperature of the compound decreases with the increase of Ga concentration in GdZn1-xGax (x = 0-0.1) while the crystal structure (CsCl-prototype) and lattice parameters remain unchanged. Our detailed analysis of magnetization and magnetocaloric data conclusively proves that long-ranged magnetic ordering exists in the sample, despite the magnetic interaction considerably weakening with the increase of Ga. The experimental data is rationalized using both theoretical machine learning model and first-principle density functional theory.The electronic band structure of GdZn is manifested with some unusual complex features which gradually diminish with Ga doping and conventional sinusoidal feature of Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya- Yosida (RKKY)-type interactions also disappears. A mean-field theory model is developed and can successfully describe the overall magnetocaloric behavior of the GdZn1-xGax series of samples


---
# Orb: A Fast, Scalable Neural Network Potential

## Orb：快速、可扩展的神经网络潜力

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22570

## 摘要翻译
arXiv：2410.22570v1 公告类型：new
摘要：我们介绍了 Orb，这是一个用于材料原子建模的通用原子间势家族。球体模型比现有的通用电位快 3-6 倍，在一系列分布外材料的模拟下保持稳定，并且在发布时，与 Matbench Discovery 基准中的其他方法相比，误差减少了 31%。我们探讨了材料基础模型开发的几个方面，重点是扩散预训练。我们将 Orb 作为几何优化、蒙特卡洛和分子动力学模拟的模型进行评估。


---
# Transferability of the chemical bond-based machine learning model for dipole moment: the GHz to THz dielectric properties of liquid propylene glycol and polypropylene glycol

## 基于化学键的机器学习模型的偶极矩的可转移性：液态丙二醇和聚丙二醇的 GHz 到 THz 介电特性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22718

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.22718v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We conducted a first-principles study of the dielectric properties of liquid propylene glycol (PG) and polypropylene glycol (PPG) using a recently developed chemical bond-based machine learning (ML) model for dipole moments [T. Amano et al. Phys. Rev. B 110, 165159 (2024)]. The ML dipole models successfully predict the dipole moment of various liquid configurations in close agreement with DFT calculations and generate $20 \mathrm{ns}$ quantum-accuracy dipole moment trajectories to calculate the dielectric function, when combined with ML potentials. The calculated dielectric function of PG closely matches experimental results. We identified a libration peak at $600\, \mathrm{cm}^{-1}$ and an intermolecular mode at $100\, \mathrm{cm}^{-1}$, previously noted experimentally. Furthermore, the models trained on PG2 training data can apply to longer chain PPG not included in the training data. The present research marks the first step toward developing a universal bond-based dipole model.


---
# SLICES-PLUS: A Crystal Representation Leveraging Spatial Symmetry

## SLICES-PLUS：利用空间对称性的晶体表示

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22828

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.22828v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: In recent years, the realm of crystalline materials has witnessed a surge in the development of generative models, predominantly aimed at the inverse design of crystals with tailored physical properties. However, spatial symmetry, which serves as a significant inductive bias, is often not optimally harnessed in the design process. This oversight tends to result in crystals with lower symmetry, potentially limiting the practical applications of certain functional materials. To bridge this gap, we introduce SLICES-PLUS, an enhanced variant of SLICES that emphasizes spatial symmetry. Our experiments in classification and generation have shown that SLICES-PLUS exhibits greater sensitivity and robustness in learning crystal symmetries compared to the original SLICES. Furthermore, by integrating SLICES-PLUS with a customized MatterGPT model, we have demonstrated its exceptional capability to target specific physical properties and crystal systems with precision. Finally, we explore autoregressive generation towards multiple elastic properties in few-shot learning. Our research represents a significant step forward in the realm of computational materials discovery.


---
# When can classical neural networks represent quantum states?

## 经典神经网络何时可以表示量子态？

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23152

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.23152v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: A naive classical representation of an n-qubit state requires specifying exponentially many amplitudes in the computational basis. Past works have demonstrated that classical neural networks can succinctly express these amplitudes for many physically relevant states, leading to computationally powerful representations known as neural quantum states. What underpins the efficacy of such representations? We show that conditional correlations present in the measurement distribution of quantum states control the performance of their neural representations. Such conditional correlations are basis dependent, arise due to measurement-induced entanglement, and reveal features not accessible through conventional few-body correlations often examined in studies of phases of matter. By combining theoretical and numerical analysis, we demonstrate how the state's entanglement and sign structure, along with the choice of measurement basis, give rise to distinct patterns of short- or long-range conditional correlations. Our findings provide a rigorous framework for exploring the expressive power of neural quantum states.


---
# Certified algorithms for quantum Hamiltonian learning via energy-entropy inequalities

## 通过能量-熵不等式进行量子哈密顿学习的认证算法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23284

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.23284v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We consider the problem of learning the Hamiltonian of a quantum system from estimates of Gibbs-state expectation values. Various methods for achieving this task were proposed recently, both from a practical and theoretical point of view. On the one hand, some practical algorithms have been implemented and used to analyze experimental data but these algorithms often lack correctness guarantees or fail to scale to large systems. On the other hand, theoretical algorithms with provable asymptotic efficiency guarantees have been proposed, but they seem challenging to implement. Recently, a semidefinite family of Hamiltonian learning algorithms was proposed which was numerically demonstrated to scale well into the 100-qubit regime, but provided no provable accuracy guarantees. We build on this work in two ways, by extending it to provide certified a posteriori lower and upper bounds on the parameters to be learned, and by proving a priori convergence in the special case where the Hamiltonian is commuting.


---
# Noise-augmented Chaotic Ising Machines for Combinatorial Optimization and Sampling

## 用于组合优化和采样的噪声增强混沌 Ising 机

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.04744

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2408.04744v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Ising machines, hardware accelerators for combinatorial optimization and probabilistic sampling problems, have gained significant interest recently. A key element is stochasticity, which enables a wide exploration of configurations, thereby helping avoid local minima. Here, we refine the previously proposed concept of coupled chaotic bits (c-bits) that operate without explicit stochasticity. We show that augmenting chaotic bits with stochasticity enhances performance in combinatorial optimization, achieving algorithmic scaling comparable to probabilistic bits (p-bits). We first demonstrate that c-bits follow the quantum Boltzmann law in a 1D transverse field Ising model. We then show that c-bits exhibit critical dynamics similar to stochastic p-bits in 2D Ising and 3D spin glass models, with promising potential to solve challenging optimization problems. Finally, we propose a noise-augmented version of coupled c-bits via the adaptive parallel tempering algorithm (APT). Our noise-augmented c-bit algorithm outperforms fully deterministic c-bits running versions of the simulated annealing algorithm. Other analog Ising machines with coupled oscillators could draw inspiration from the proposed algorithm. Running replicas at constant temperature eliminates the need for global modulation of coupling strengths. Mixing stochasticity with deterministic c-bits creates a powerful hybrid computing scheme that can bring benefits in scaled, asynchronous, and massively parallel hardware implementations.


---
# A simple intelligent adaptive network

## 简单智能自适应网络

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.04930

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2407.04930v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: For real-world complex system constantly enduring perturbation, to achieve survival goal in changing yet unknown environments, the central problem is constantly adapting themself to external environments according to environmental feedback. Such adaptability is considered the nature of general intelligence. Inspired by thermodynamics, we develop a self-adaptive network utilizing only macroscopic information to achieve desired landscape through reconfiguring itself in unknown environments. By continuously estimating environment entropy, our network can adaptively realize desired landscape represented by topological measures. Our network achieves adaptation under several scenarios, including confinement on phase space and geographic constraint. A unique power law distinguishes our network from memoryless systems. Furthermore, our simple strategy could enable brain network and communication network to adaptively maintain essential topological characteristics. Compared to data-driven methods, our self-adaptive network is understandable without careful choice of learning architectures and parameters. Our self-adaptive network could help to understand adaptive intelligence through the lens of thermodynamics.


---
# Quantum Boltzmann machine learning of ground-state energies

## 基态能量的量子玻尔兹曼机器学习

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.12935

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.12935v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Estimating the ground-state energy of Hamiltonians is a fundamental task for which it is believed that quantum computers can be helpful. Several approaches have been proposed toward this goal, including algorithms based on quantum phase estimation and hybrid quantum-classical optimizers involving parameterized quantum circuits, the latter falling under the umbrella of the variational quantum eigensolver. Here, we analyze the performance of quantum Boltzmann machines for this task, which is a less explored ansatz based on parameterized thermal states and which is not known to suffer from the barren-plateau problem. We delineate a hybrid quantum-classical algorithm for this task and rigorously prove that it converges to an $\varepsilon$-approximate stationary point of the energy function optimized over parameter space, while using a number of parameterized-thermal-state samples that is polynomial in $\varepsilon^{-1}$, the number of parameters, and the norm of the Hamiltonian being optimized. Our algorithm estimates the gradient of the energy function efficiently by means of a novel quantum circuit construction that combines classical sampling, Hamiltonian simulation, and the Hadamard test, thus overcoming a key obstacle to quantum Boltzmann machine learning that has been left open since [Amin et al., Phys. Rev. X 8, 021050 (2018)]. Additionally supporting our main claims are calculations of the gradient and Hessian of the energy function, as well as an upper bound on the matrix elements of the latter that is used in the convergence analysis.


---
# Towards Neural-Network-based optical temperature sensing of Semiconductor Membrane External Cavity Laser

## 面向半导体膜外腔激光器基于神经网络的光学温度传感

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22528

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.22528v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: A machine-learning non-contact method to determine the temperature of a laser gain medium via its laser emission with a trained few-layer neural net model is presented. The training of the feed-forward Neural Network (NN) enables the prediction of the device's properties solely from spectral data, here recorded by visible-/nearinfrared-light compact micro-spectrometers for both a diode pump laser and optically-pumped gain membrane of a semiconductor disk laser. Fiber spectrometers are used for the acquisition of large quantities of labelled intensity data, which can afterwards be used for the prediction process. Such pretrained deep NNs enable a fast, reliable and easy way to infer the temperature of a laser system such as our Membrane External Cavity Laser, at a later monitoring stage without the need of additional optical diagnostics or read-out temperature sensors. With the miniature mobile spectrometer and the remote detection ability, the temperature inference capability can be adapted for various laser diodes using transfer learning methods with pretrained models. Here, mean-square-error values for the temperature inference corresponding to sub-percent accuracy of our sensor scheme are reached, while computational cost can be saved by reducing the network depth at the here displayed cost of accuracy, as appropriate for different application scenarios.


---
# A physics-aware data-driven surrogate approach for fast atmospheric radiative transfer inversion

## 一种物理感知数据驱动的快速大气辐射传输反演方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22609

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.22609v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: FORUM (Far-infrared Outgoing Radiation Understanding and Monitoring) was selected in 2019 as the ninth Earth Explorer mission by the European Space Agency (ESA). Its primary objective is to collect interferometric measurements in the Far-InfraRed (FIR) spectral range, which accounts for 50\% of Earth's outgoing longwave radiation emitted into space, and will be observed from space for the first time. Accurate measurements of the FIR at the top of the atmosphere are crucial for improving climate models. Current instruments are insufficient, necessitating the development of advanced computational techniques. To ensure the quality of the mission data, an End-to-End Simulator (E2ES) was developed to simulate the measurement process and evaluate the effects of instrument characteristics and environmental factors. The core challenge of the mission is solving the retrieval problem, which involves estimating atmospheric properties from the radiance spectra observed by the satellite. This problem is ill-posed and regularization techniques are necessary. In this work, we present a novel and fast data-driven approach to approximate the inverse mapping. In the first phase, we generate an initial approximation of the inverse mapping using only simulated FORUM data. In the second phase, we improve this approximation by introducing climatological data as a priori information and using a neural network to estimate the optimal regularization parameters. While our approach does not match the precision of full-physics retrieval methods, its key advantage is the ability to deliver results almost instantaneously, making it highly suitable for real-time applications. Furthermore, the proposed method can provide more accurate a priori estimates for full-physics methods, thereby improving the overall accuracy of the retrieved atmospheric profiles.


---
# Transferability of the chemical bond-based machine learning model for dipole moment: the GHz to THz dielectric properties of liquid propylene glycol and polypropylene glycol

## 基于化学键的机器学习模型的偶极矩的可转移性：液态丙二醇和聚丙二醇的 GHz 到 THz 介电特性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22718

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.22718v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We conducted a first-principles study of the dielectric properties of liquid propylene glycol (PG) and polypropylene glycol (PPG) using a recently developed chemical bond-based machine learning (ML) model for dipole moments [T. Amano et al. Phys. Rev. B 110, 165159 (2024)]. The ML dipole models successfully predict the dipole moment of various liquid configurations in close agreement with DFT calculations and generate $20 \mathrm{ns}$ quantum-accuracy dipole moment trajectories to calculate the dielectric function, when combined with ML potentials. The calculated dielectric function of PG closely matches experimental results. We identified a libration peak at $600\, \mathrm{cm}^{-1}$ and an intermolecular mode at $100\, \mathrm{cm}^{-1}$, previously noted experimentally. Furthermore, the models trained on PG2 training data can apply to longer chain PPG not included in the training data. The present research marks the first step toward developing a universal bond-based dipole model.


---
# Machine Learning Nonadiabatic Dynamics: Eliminating Phase Freedom of Nonadiabatic Couplings with the State-Intraction State-Averaged Spin-Restricted Ensemble-Referenced Kohn-Sham Approach

## 机器学习非绝热动力学：使用状态-吸引力状态平均自旋限制系综参考 Kohn-Sham 方法消除非绝热耦合的相位自由度

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22801

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.22801v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Excited-state molecular dynamics (ESMD) simulations near conical intersections (CIs) pose significant challenges when using machine learning potentials (MLPs). Although MLPs have gained recognition for their integration into mixed quantum-classical (MQC) methods, such as trajectory surface hopping (TSH), and their capacity to model correlated electron-nuclear dynamics efficiently, difficulties persist in managing nonadiabatic dynamics. Specifically, singularities at CIs and double-valued coupling elements result in discontinuities that disrupt the smoothness of predictive functions. Partial solutions have been provided by learning diabatic Hamiltonians with phaseless loss functions to these challenges. However, a definitive method for addressing the discontinuities caused by CIs and double-valued coupling elements has yet to be developed. Here, we introduce the phaseless coupling term, $\Delta^2$, derived from the square of the off-diagonal elements of the diabatic Hamiltonian in the SSR(2,2) formalism. This approach improves the stability and accuracy of the MLP model by addressing the issues arising from CI singularities and double-valued coupling functions. We apply this method to the penta-2,4-dieniminium cation (PSB3), demonstrating its effectiveness in improving MLP training for ML-based nonadiabatic dynamics. Our results show that the $\Delta^2$ based ML-ESMD method can reproduce ab initio ESMD simulations, underscoring its potential and efficiency for broader applications, particularly in large-scale and long-timescale ESMD simulations.


---
# SLICES-PLUS: A Crystal Representation Leveraging Spatial Symmetry

## SLICES-PLUS：利用空间对称性的晶体表示

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22828

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.22828v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: In recent years, the realm of crystalline materials has witnessed a surge in the development of generative models, predominantly aimed at the inverse design of crystals with tailored physical properties. However, spatial symmetry, which serves as a significant inductive bias, is often not optimally harnessed in the design process. This oversight tends to result in crystals with lower symmetry, potentially limiting the practical applications of certain functional materials. To bridge this gap, we introduce SLICES-PLUS, an enhanced variant of SLICES that emphasizes spatial symmetry. Our experiments in classification and generation have shown that SLICES-PLUS exhibits greater sensitivity and robustness in learning crystal symmetries compared to the original SLICES. Furthermore, by integrating SLICES-PLUS with a customized MatterGPT model, we have demonstrated its exceptional capability to target specific physical properties and crystal systems with precision. Finally, we explore autoregressive generation towards multiple elastic properties in few-shot learning. Our research represents a significant step forward in the realm of computational materials discovery.


---
# Dataset of polarimetric images of mechanically generated water surface waves coupled with surface elevation records by wave gauges linear array

## 机械生成的水面波极化图像数据集，以及通过波计线性阵列进行的表面高程记录

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22849

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.22849v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Effective spatio-temporal measurements of water surface elevation (water waves) in laboratory experiments are essential for scientific and engineering research. Existing techniques are often cumbersome, computationally heavy and generally suffer from limited wavenumber/frequency response. To address these challenges a novel method was developed, using polarization filter equipped camera as the main sensor and Machine Learning (ML) algorithms for data processing [1,2]. The developed method training and evaluation was based on in-house made supervised dataset. Here we present this supervised dataset of polarimetric images of the water surface coupled with the water surface elevation measurements made by a linear array of resistance-type wave gauges (WG). The water waves were mechanically generated in a laboratory waves basin, and the polarimetric images were captured under an artificial light source. Meticulous camera and WGs calibration and instruments synchronization supported high spatio-temporal resolution. The data set covers several wavefield conditions, from simple monochromatic wave trains of various steepness, to irregular wavefield of JONSWAP prescribed spectral shape and several wave breaking scenarios. The dataset contains measurements repeated in several camera positions relative to the wave field propagation direction.


---
# Differentiable Conservative Radially Symmetric Fluid Simulations and Stellar Winds -- jf1uids

## 可微守径向对称流体模拟和恒星风 -- jf1uids

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23093

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.23093v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We present jf1uids, a one-dimensional fluid solver that can, by virtue of a geometric formulation of the Euler equations, model radially symmetric fluid problems in a conservative manner, i.e., without losing mass or energy. For spherical problems, such as ideal supernova explosions or stellar wind-blown bubble expansions, simulating only along a radial dimension drastically reduces compute and memory demands compared to a full three-dimensional method. This simplification also alleviates constraints on backpropagation through the solver. Written in JAX, jf1uids is a GPU-compatible and fully differentiable simulator. We demonstrate the advantages of this differentiable physics simulator by retrieving the wind's parameters for an adiabatic stellar wind expansion from the final fluid state using gradient descent. As part of a larger "stellar winds, cosmic rays and machine learning" research track, jf1uids serves as a solid foundation to be extended with additional physics modules, foremost cosmic rays and a neural-net powered gas-cooling surrogate and improved by higher order and more accurate numerical schemes. All code is available under https://github.com/leo1200/jf1uids/.


---
# Classically studied coherent structures only paint a partial picture of wall-bounded turbulence

## 经典研究的相干结构只能部分描绘出壁面湍流的画面

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23189

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.23189v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: For the last 140 years, the mechanisms of transport and dissipation of energy in a turbulent flow have not been completely understood due to the complexity of this phenomenon. The dissipation of energy due to turbulence is significative, and understanding turbulence physics is crucial for fighting the present climate emergency. Previous research has focused on analyzing the so-called coherent structures of the flow (Q events, streaks, and vortices), which are regions of high turbulence transport, high/low streamwise fluctuation, and rotation, respectively. However, the connection between these classically studied structures and the flow development is still uncertain. To fill this gap, here we show a data-driven methodology for objectively identifying high-importance regions in a turbulent flow. A deep-learning model is trained to predict a future state of a turbulent channel flow and the gradient-SHAP explainability algorithm is used to calculate the importance of each grid point for such a prediction. Finally, high-importance regions are computed using the SHAP data, analyzing and comparing their characteristics with those of the other coherent structures. The SHAP analysis provides an objective way to identify the regions of highest importance in the turbulent flow, which exhibit different levels of agreement with the classically studied structures.


---
# Full-waveform earthquake source inversion using simulation-based inference

## 使用基于仿真的推理进行全波形地震源反演

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23238

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.23238v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel framework for full-waveform seismic source inversion using simulation-based inference (SBI). Traditional probabilistic approaches often rely on simplifying assumptions about data errors, which we show can lead to inaccurate uncertainty quantification. SBI addresses this limitation by building an empirical probabilistic model of the data errors using machine learning models, known as neural density estimators, which can then be integrated into the Bayesian inference framework. We apply the SBI framework to point-source moment tensor inversions as well as joint moment tensor and time-location inversions. We construct a range of synthetic examples to explore the quality of the SBI solutions, as well as to compare the SBI results with standard Gaussian likelihood-based Bayesian inversions. We then demonstrate that under real seismic noise, common Gaussian likelihood assumptions for treating full-waveform data yield overconfident posterior distributions that underestimate the moment tensor component uncertainties by up to a factor of 3. We contrast this with SBI, which produces well-calibrated posteriors that generally agree with the true seismic source parameters, and offers an order-of-magnitude reduction in the number of simulations required to perform inference compared to standard Monte Carlo techniques. Finally, we apply our methodology to a pair of moderate magnitude earthquakes in the North Atlantic. We utilise seismic waveforms recorded by the recent UPFLOW ocean bottom seismometer array as well as by regional land stations in the Azores, comparing full moment tensor and source-time location posteriors between SBI and a Gaussian likelihood approach. We find that our adaptation of SBI can be directly applied to real earthquake sources to efficiently produce high quality posterior distributions that significantly improve upon Gaussian likelihood approaches.


---
# Error Bounds for Deep Learning-based Uncertainty Propagation in SDEs

## SDE 中基于深度学习的不确定性传播的误差边界

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22371

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.22371v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Stochastic differential equations are commonly used to describe the evolution of stochastic processes. The uncertainty of such processes is best represented by the probability density function (PDF), whose evolution is governed by the Fokker-Planck partial differential equation (FP-PDE). However, it is generally infeasible to solve the FP-PDE in closed form. In this work, we show that physics-informed neural networks (PINNs) can be trained to approximate the solution PDF using existing methods. The main contribution is the analysis of the approximation error: we develop a theory to construct an arbitrary tight error bound with PINNs. In addition, we derive a practical error bound that can be efficiently constructed with existing training methods. Finally, we explain that this error-bound theory generalizes to approximate solutions of other linear PDEs. Several numerical experiments are conducted to demonstrate and validate the proposed methods.


---
# A Systematic Literature Review of Spatio-Temporal Graph Neural Network Models for Time Series Forecasting and Classification

## 用于时间序列预测和分类的时空图神经网络模型的系统文献综述

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22377

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.22377v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: In recent years, spatio-temporal graph neural networks (GNNs) have attracted considerable interest in the field of time series analysis, due to their ability to capture dependencies among variables and across time points. The objective of the presented systematic literature review is hence to provide a comprehensive overview of the various modeling approaches and application domains of GNNs for time series classification and forecasting. A database search was conducted, and over 150 journal papers were selected for a detailed examination of the current state-of-the-art in the field. This examination is intended to offer to the reader a comprehensive collection of proposed models, links to related source code, available datasets, benchmark models, and fitting results. All this information is hoped to assist researchers in future studies. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first systematic literature review presenting a detailed comparison of the results of current spatio-temporal GNN models in different domains. In addition, in its final part this review discusses current limitations and challenges in the application of spatio-temporal GNNs, such as comparability, reproducibility, explainability, poor information capacity, and scalability.


---
# The Reconstruction of the Space-Dependent Thermal Conductivity from Sparse Temperature Measurements

## 从稀疏温度测量中重建空间相关热导率

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22822

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.22822v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We present a novel method for reconstructing the thermal conductivity coefficient in 1D and 2D heat equations using moving sensors that dynamically traverse the domain to record sparse and noisy temperature measurements. We significantly reduce the computational cost associated with forward PDE evaluations by employing automatic differentiation, enabling a more efficient and scalable reconstruction process. This allows the inverse problem to be solved with fewer sensors and observations. Specifically, we demonstrate the successful reconstruction of thermal conductivity on the 1D circle and 2D torus, using one and four moving sensors, respectively, with their positions recorded over time. Our method incorporates sampling algorithms to compute confidence intervals for the reconstructed conductivity, improving robustness against measurement noise. Extensive numerical simulations of heat dynamics validate the efficacy of our approach, confirming both the accuracy and stability of the reconstructed thermal conductivity. Additionally, the method is thoroughly tested using large datasets from machine learning, allowing us to evaluate its performance across various scenarios and ensure its reliability. This approach provides a cost-effective and flexible solution for conductivity reconstruction from sparse measurements, making it a robust tool for solving inverse problems in complex domains.


---
# Conditioned quantum-assisted deep generative surrogate for particle-calorimeter interactions

## 用于粒子-量热仪相互作用的条件量子辅助深度生成替代物

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22870

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.22870v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Particle collisions at accelerators such as the Large Hadron Collider, recorded and analyzed by experiments such as ATLAS and CMS, enable exquisite measurements of the Standard Model and searches for new phenomena. Simulations of collision events at these detectors have played a pivotal role in shaping the design of future experiments and analyzing ongoing ones. However, the quest for accuracy in Large Hadron Collider (LHC) collisions comes at an imposing computational cost, with projections estimating the need for millions of CPU-years annually during the High Luminosity LHC (HL-LHC) run \cite{collaboration2022atlas}. Simulating a single LHC event with \textsc{Geant4} currently devours around 1000 CPU seconds, with simulations of the calorimeter subdetectors in particular imposing substantial computational demands \cite{rousseau2023experimental}. To address this challenge, we propose a conditioned quantum-assisted deep generative model. Our model integrates a conditioned variational autoencoder (VAE) on the exterior with a conditioned Restricted Boltzmann Machine (RBM) in the latent space, providing enhanced expressiveness compared to conventional VAEs. The RBM nodes and connections are meticulously engineered to enable the use of qubits and couplers on D-Wave's Pegasus-structured \textit{Advantage} quantum annealer (QA) for sampling. We introduce a novel method for conditioning the quantum-assisted RBM using \textit{flux biases}. We further propose a novel adaptive mapping to estimate the effective inverse temperature in quantum annealers. The effectiveness of our framework is illustrated using Dataset 2 of the CaloChallenge \cite{calochallenge}.


---
# HGPflow: Extending Hypergraph Particle Flow to Collider Event Reconstruction

## HGPflow：将 Hypergraph 粒子流扩展到碰撞器事件重建

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23236

## 摘要翻译
arXiv：2410.23236v1 公告类型：cross
摘要：在高能物理学中，根据粒子的探测器特征重建粒子的能力对于下游数据分析至关重要。以前已经在单射流的背景下探索了一种基于学习超图的粒子重建算法 （HGPflow）。在本文中，我们将范围扩展到完整的质子-质子和电子-正电子碰撞事件，并使用粒子、喷流和事件级别的指标研究重建质量。我们不是一次性对整个事件进行操作，而是在较小的分区上训练 HGPflow，以避免可能学习与物理过程相关的长期相关性。我们证明了这种方法是可行的，并且在大多数指标上，HGPflow 的性能都优于传统的粒子流算法和基于机器学习的基准模型。


---
# Lorentz-Equivariant Geometric Algebra Transformers for High-Energy Physics

## 用于高能物理的洛伦兹等变几何代数变压器

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.14806

## 摘要翻译
arXiv：2405.14806v3 公告类型：replace
摘要： 从粒子物理实验中提取科学认识，需要以高精度和良好的数据效率解决多样化的学习问题。我们提出了洛伦兹几何代数转换器 （L-GATr），这是一种用于高能物理学的新型多用途架构。L-GATr 表示四维时空几何代数中的高能数据，并且在相对论运动学的对称群洛伦兹变换下是等变的。同时，该架构是一个 Transformer，这使得它具有多功能性和可扩展性，适用于大型系统。L-GATr 首先在粒子物理学的回归和分类任务上进行了演示。然后，我们构建了第一个洛伦兹等变生成模型：基于 L-GATr 网络的连续归一化流，用黎曼流匹配训练。在我们的实验中，L-GATr 与强大的领域特异性基线相当或优于强领域基线。


---
# Extracting thin film structures of energy materials using transformers

## 使用变压器提取能源材料的薄膜结构

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.16741

## 摘要翻译
arXiv：2406.16741v2 公告类型：replace
摘要： 介绍了一种采用变压器架构的神经网络模型 Neutron-Transformer Reflectionometry and Advanced Computation Engine （N-TRACE），用于中子反射计数据分析。它提供快速、准确的初始参数估计和高效的优化，提高了电化学氨合成中锂介导的氮还原实时数据分析的效率和精度，与其他化学转化和电池相关。尽管在跨系统泛化方面存在局限性，但它表明了使用变压器作为模型基础的前景，这些模型可以取代试错法来建模反射计数据。


---
# Response Estimation and System Identification of Dynamical Systems via Physics-Informed Neural Networks

## 通过物理信息神经网络对动力系统进行响应估计和系统识别

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.01340

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.01340v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: The accurate modelling of structural dynamics is crucial across numerous engineering applications, such as Structural Health Monitoring (SHM), seismic analysis, and vibration control. Often, these models originate from physics-based principles and can be derived from corresponding governing equations, often of differential equation form. However, complex system characteristics, such as nonlinearities and energy dissipation mechanisms, often imply that such models are approximative and often imprecise. This challenge is further compounded in SHM, where sensor data is often sparse, making it difficult to fully observe the system's states. To address these issues, this paper explores the use of Physics-Informed Neural Networks (PINNs), a class of physics-enhanced machine learning (PEML) techniques, for the identification and estimation of dynamical systems. PINNs offer a unique advantage by embedding known physical laws directly into the neural network's loss function, allowing for simple embedding of complex phenomena, even in the presence of uncertainties. This study specifically investigates three key applications of PINNs: state estimation in systems with sparse sensing, joint state-parameter estimation, when both system response and parameters are unknown, and parameter estimation within a Bayesian framework to quantify uncertainties. The results demonstrate that PINNs deliver an efficient tool across all aforementioned tasks, even in presence of modelling errors. However, these errors tend to have a more significant impact on parameter estimation, as the optimization process must reconcile discrepancies between the prescribed model and the true system behavior. Despite these challenges, PINNs show promise in dynamical system modeling, offering a robust approach to handling uncertainties.


---
# PACER: Physics Informed Uncertainty Aware Climate Emulator

## PACER：物理知情不确定性感知气候模拟器

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.21657

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.21657v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Climate models serve as critical tools for evaluating the effects of climate change and projecting future climate scenarios. However, the reliance on numerical simulations of physical equations renders them computationally intensive and inefficient. While deep learning methodologies have made significant progress in weather forecasting, they are still unstable for climate emulation tasks. Here, we propose PACER, a lightweight 684K parameter Physics Informed Uncertainty Aware Climate Emulator. PACER emulates temperature and precipitation stably for 86 years while only being trained on greenhouse gas emissions data. We incorporate a fundamental physical law of advection-diffusion in PACER accounting for boundary conditions and empirically estimating the diffusion co-efficient and flow velocities from emissions data. PACER has been trained on 15 climate models provided by ClimateSet outperforming baselines across most of the climate models and advancing a new state of the art in a climate diagnostic task.


---
# Quantum cryptography visualized: assessing visual attention on multiple representations with eye tracking in an AR-enhanced quantum cryptography student experiment

## 可视化量子密码学：在 AR 增强量子密码学学生实验中使用眼动追踪评估多种表示的视觉注意力

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.21975

## 摘要翻译
arXiv：2410.21975v2 公告类型：replace
摘要：随着现实世界量子技术应用的出现和发展，包括学生量子实验在内的以实践为中心的量子教育在物理课程中越来越重要。在本文中，我们使用 DeFT 框架，对 AR 增强量子密码学学生实验中的表示进行了分析，以评估它们在促进概念学习方面的潜力。我们还根据我们从一项试点研究中获得的眼睛凝视数据讨论了学习者对提供的多重表示的视觉注意，其中 N=38 名学生执行了我们的 AR 增强量子密码学学生实验中的任务。


---
# Parameter uncertainties for imperfect surrogate models in the low-noise regime

## 低噪声范围内不完美代理模型的参数不确定性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.01810

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2402.01810v4 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Bayesian regression determines model parameters by minimizing the expected loss, an upper bound to the true generalization error. However, the loss ignores misspecification, where models are imperfect. Parameter uncertainties from Bayesian regression are thus significantly underestimated and vanish in the large data limit. This is particularly problematic when building models of low-noise, or near-deterministic, calculations, as the main source of uncertainty is neglected. We analyze the generalization error of misspecified, near-deterministic surrogate models, a regime of broad relevance in science and engineering. We show posterior distributions must cover every training point to avoid a divergent generalization error and design an ansatz that respects this constraint, which for linear models incurs minimal overhead. This is demonstrated on model problems before application to thousand dimensional datasets in atomistic machine learning. Our efficient misspecification-aware scheme gives accurate prediction and bounding of test errors where existing schemes fail, allowing this important source of uncertainty to be incorporated in computational workflows.


---
# Kronecker-Factored Approximate Curvature for Physics-Informed Neural Networks

## 物理信息神经网络的 Kronecker 因子近似曲率

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.15603

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2405.15603v3 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Physics-informed neural networks (PINNs) are infamous for being hard to train. Recently, second-order methods based on natural gradient and Gauss-Newton methods have shown promising performance, improving the accuracy achieved by first-order methods by several orders of magnitude. While promising, the proposed methods only scale to networks with a few thousand parameters due to the high computational cost to evaluate, store, and invert the curvature matrix. We propose Kronecker-factored approximate curvature (KFAC) for PINN losses that greatly reduces the computational cost and allows scaling to much larger networks. Our approach goes beyond the established KFAC for traditional deep learning problems as it captures contributions from a PDE's differential operator that are crucial for optimization. To establish KFAC for such losses, we use Taylor-mode automatic differentiation to describe the differential operator's computation graph as a forward network with shared weights. This allows us to apply KFAC thanks to a recently-developed general formulation for networks with weight sharing. Empirically, we find that our KFAC-based optimizers are competitive with expensive second-order methods on small problems, scale more favorably to higher-dimensional neural networks and PDEs, and consistently outperform first-order methods and LBFGS.


---
# AMARO: All Heavy-Atom Transferable Neural Network Potentials of Protein Thermodynamics

## AMARO：蛋白质热力学的所有重原子可传递神经网络势

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.17852

## 摘要翻译
arXiv：2409.17852v2 公告类型：replace-cross
摘要：全原子分子模拟提供了对大分子现象的详细见解，但其大量的计算成本阻碍了对复杂生物过程的探索。我们介绍了高级机器学习原子表示全力场 （AMARO），这是一种新的神经网络势 （NNP），它结合了 O（3） 等变消息传递神经网络架构 TensorNet 和排除氢原子的粗粒度映射。AMARO 展示了在没有先验能量项的情况下训练较粗的 NNP 以运行具有可扩展性和泛化能力的稳定蛋白质动力学的可行性。


---
# Predicting Molecular Ground-State Conformation via Conformation Optimization

## 通过构象优化预测分子基态构象

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.09795

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.09795v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Predicting ground-state conformation from the corresponding molecular graph is crucial for many chemical applications, such as molecular modeling, molecular docking, and molecular property prediction. Recently, many learning-based methods have been proposed to replace time-consuming simulations for this task. However, these methods are often inefficient and sub-optimal as they merely rely on molecular graph information to make predictions from scratch. In this work, considering that molecular low-quality conformations are readily available, we propose a novel framework called ConfOpt to predict molecular ground-state conformation from the perspective of conformation optimization. Specifically, ConfOpt takes the molecular graph and corresponding low-quality 3D conformation as inputs, and then derives the ground-state conformation by iteratively optimizing the low-quality conformation under the guidance of the molecular graph. During training, ConfOpt concurrently optimizes the predicted atomic 3D coordinates and the corresponding interatomic distances, resulting in a strong predictive model. Extensive experiments demonstrate that ConfOpt significantly outperforms existing methods, thus providing a new paradigm for efficiently and accurately predicting molecular ground-state conformation.


---
# Forecasting the South African labour market indicators: A comparison of ARIMA, count series models and machine learning regressors

## 预测南非劳动力市场指标：ARIMA、计数序列模型和机器学习回归变量的比较

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5360162/latest

## 摘要翻译
本文比较了计数序列、时间序列和机器学习模型，以确定最佳数据类型（介于计数数据和连续数据之间）和预测劳动力市场变量的最佳模型。数据来自南非统计局s 劳动力季度调查 （2008&amp;ndash;2021） 用于比较 ARIMA、泊松自回归 （PAR）、负二项式回归 （NBR）、广义泊松回归 （GPR）、支持向量回归 （SVR） 和基于 MAE、RMSE、MAPE、MSE 的多层感知器 （MLP） 回归器以及实际值与模型预测的图。研究表明，估计劳动力市场变量未来值的最准确方法是实施 PAR 来预测失业、就业和非经济活动的人数，然后使用这些预测来计算失业率、吸收率和劳动力参与率的未来值。


---
# AI-Based Anomaly Detection in Maritime Traffic

## 基于 AI 的海上交通异常检测

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5358980/latest

## 摘要翻译
自动识别系统 （AIS） 在传递有关海上交通的重要信息方面发挥着至关重要的作用。本文对海上交通 &amp;AIS 数据系统;它们的重要性和应用领域。对用于海上异常检测（海上监视领域的一项重要任务）的各种技术和方法进行了详细回顾。此外，还详细阐述了使用人工智能 （AI） 的新兴趋势，包括机器学习 （ML） 和深度学习 （DL）。最后，我们使用美国海岸警卫队的历史 AIS 数据集来重建船只的轨迹，并提出支持向量回归 （SVR），这是一种支持向量机 （SVM） 的高级形式，用于数据中的搜索异常。1


---
# Extraction of banana fiber and characterization analysis of a hybrid (banana, jute, carbon and glass) reinforced composite material.

## 香蕉纤维的提取和混合（香蕉、黄麻、碳和玻璃）增强复合材料的表征分析。

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5358880/latest

## 摘要翻译
Banana is a well-known tree in many countries. After harvesting bananas, the trees are cut down. The fibers obtained through this plant processing acquire luxurious properties like high strength, toughness, durability, etc. Due to the micro-pores on its surface, it has good reinforcing ability with resins. In many engineering applications today, including the automotive industry, natural fiber composites or composites that combine natural fibers with high performance fibers are preferred over synthetic fiber composites. Here a simple process is adopted to extract the banana fiber where no machines or chemicals are used. Three types of composite materials are made from banana, carbon, jute, and glass fiber, as well as their yarns, fabrics and mats. Three different samples, namely S1, S2, and S3, were prepared using the hand lay-up technique. After analyzing their properties, it showed that the highest mechanical properties are found in the composite of [Carbon fabric-(jute+banana) blended yarn-glass mat] at the direction of Yarn. The tensile strengths of samples S1, S2, and S3 are 229 MPa, 289 MPa, and 223 MPa, respectively, with elongation values of 6.47%, 5.59%, and 7.24%. For the flexural strength test, the results are 247 MPa for S1, 294 MPa for S2, and 234 2 MPa for S3. Finally, the impact strength results show 22 J for S1, 15 J for S2, and 19 J for S3. The qualities of the above features ensure that they can be used in the automobile industry.


---
# Heterogeneous 2D Memristor Array and Silicon Selector for Compute-in-Memory Hardware in Convolution Neural Networks

## 用于卷积神经网络中内存计算硬件的异构 2D 忆阻器阵列和硅选择器

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-3172508/latest

## 摘要翻译
Memristor crossbar arrays (CBAs) based on two-dimensional (2D) materials have emerged as a potential solution to overcome the limitations of energy consumption and latency associated with the conventional von Neumann architecture.  However, current 2D memristor CBAs encounter specific challenges such as limited array size, high sneak path current, and lack of integration with peripheral circuits for hardware compute-in-memory (CIM) systems.  In this work, we demonstrate a novel hardware CIM system that leverages the heterogeneous integration of scalable 2D hafnium diselenide (HfSe2) memristors and silicon (Si) selectors, as well as the integration between memristive CBAs and peripheral control-sensing circuits.  The integrated 32 &times; 32 one-selector-one-memristor (1S1R) array effectively mitigates sneak current, exhibiting a high yield (89%) with notable uniformity. The integrated CBA demonstrates exceptional improvement of energy efficiency and response time comparable to state-of-the-art 2D materials-based memristors. To take advantage of low latency devices for achieving low energy systems, time-domain sensing circuits with the CBA are used, of which the power consumption surpasses that of analog-to-digital converters (ADCs) by 2.5 folds.  Moreover, the implemented full-hardware binary convolution neural network (CNN) achieves remarkable accuracy (97.5%) in a pattern recognition task.  Additionally, analog computing and in-built activation functions are demonstrated within the system, further augmenting energy efficiency.  This silicon-compatible heterogeneous integration approach, along with the energy-efficient CIM system, presents a promising hardware solution for artificial intelligence (AI) applications.


---
# Observational Study of the Effect of ESFT Approach on Cross-Culture Competency Teaching for Young PGY Physicians

## ESFT 方法对年轻 PGY 医生跨文化能力教学影响的观察性研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5264786/latest

## 摘要翻译
Background The increasing multicultural demands in healthcare, driven by globalization and the growing population of new immigrants, have highlighted the need for improved cross-cultural competence among medical professionals. This study aims to investigate the impact of a cross-cultural competence course, based on the ESFT (Explanation, Social and Environmental Factors, Fears and Concerns, Therapeutic Contracting) model, on young physicians' cultural sensitivity and related competencies within Taiwan&amp;rsquo;s healthcare system.Methods Forty young PGY physicians enrolled in this study and ESFT teaching model was implemented. By using a mixed-methods approach, which combines both quantitative and qualitative surveys allows for a comprehensive evaluation of the course's effectiveness.Results It showed that significant improvements in cultural sensitivity, multicultural perceptions, multicultural competencies, and cultural care competence, particularly among male physicians and those with over two years of clinical experience. However, female participants and those with less clinical experience did not demonstrate significant improvement. The study identifies regional cultural diversity as a potential factor contributing to the observed differences in competence development. Furthermore, qualitative feedback emphasized the importance of real-life clinical scenarios in enhancing learning outcomes.Conclusion The study's findings underscore the need for targeted, adaptable cross-cultural education programs that account for gender and clinical experience differences. Future research should focus on long-term effects and diversified teaching strategies to optimize cross-cultural competence training in medical education. This approach could improve physician-patient communication and healthcare quality in increasingly multicultural societies.


---
# L&eacute;vy Versus Wiener: Assessing the Effects of Model Misspecification on Diffusion Model Parameters

## Lévy 与 Wiener：评估模型错误指定对扩散模型参数的影响

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5276939/latest

## 摘要翻译
The L&eacute;vy Flight Model (LFM; Voss et al., 2019) modifies the Diffusion Decision Model (DDM; Ratcliff, 1978) by integrating a heavy-tailed noise distribution into evidence accumulation. Initial results suggest that the LFM may offer a more accurate representation of the true cognitive process. If this is the case, analyzing data with a classical DDM may misrepresent the underlying latent processes. In the present study, we explore the estimation biases that arise when data from an LFM are analyzed with the DDM. To this end, we conducted extensive simulations using both basic and full versions of the DDM and the LFM, employing cross-fitting through simulation-based inference with neural networks as implemented in the BayesFlow framework. Given the susceptibility of neural networks to misspecification, we additionally employ a Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) approach as a benchmark for the neural estimates. Our results demonstrate that neural networks and MCMC exhibited nearly identical estimation performance for the basic DDM. Importantly, the basic DDM showed a notable underestimation of boundary separation and non-decision time when fitted to LFM data. The full DDM significantly overestimated inter-trial variabilities in starting point and non-decision time, while it still underestimating boundary separation. In conclusion, our results suggest that DDM-based analyses may lead to biased results when the true data-generating process is more accurately captured by a LFM. Implications for previous findings are discussed.


---
# STAT-LSTM: A multivariate spatiotemporal feature aggregation model for SPEI-based drought prediction

## STAT-LSTM： 一种基于 SPEI 的干旱预测多元时空特征聚合模型

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5286493/latest

## 摘要翻译
In recent decades, shifts in the spatiotemporal patterns of precipitation and extreme temperatures have contributed to more frequent droughts. These changes impact not only agricultural production but also food security, ecological sys- tems, and social stability. Advanced techniques such as machine learning and deep learning models outperform traditional models by improving meteorolog- ical drought prediction. Specifically, this study proposes a novel model named the multivariate feature aggregation-based temporal convolutional network for meteorological drought spatiotemporal prediction (STAT-LSTM). The method consists of three parts: a feature aggregation module, which aggregates multi- variate features to extract initial features; a self-attention-temporal convolutional network (SA-TCN), which extracts time series features and uses the self-attention module&rsquo;s weighting mechanism to automatically capture global dependencies in the sequential data; and a long short-term memory network (LSTM), which cap- tures long-term dependencies. The performance of the STAT-LSTM model was assessed and compared via performance indicators (i.e., MAE, RMSE, and R2 ). The results indicated that STAT-LSTM provided the most accurate SPEI pre- diction (MAE = 0.474, RMSE = 0.63, and R2 = 0.613 for SPEI-3; MAE = 0.356, RMSE = 0.468, and R2 = 0.748 for SPEI-6; MAE = 0.284, RMSE = 0.437, and R2 = 0.813 for SPEI-9; and MAE = 0.182, RMSE = 0.267, and R2 = 0.934 for SPEI-12).


---
# AI-based state extension and augmentation for nonlinear dynamical first principles models

## 基于 AI 的非线性动态第一性原理模型状态扩展和增强

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5165019/latest

## 摘要翻译
Nonlinear dynamics models derived using First Principles (FPs) often suffer from limited accuracy in relation to the complex physical systems they represent. Therefore, model updating may be employed to improve the accuracy of the FP model. In this work, an AI-based updating methodology is proposed where an existing FP model is extended by introducing new states (to capture, e.g., unmodeled modes or parasitic degrees of freedom) using a subspace encoder, and capture their governing equations of motion using a Recurrent Neural Network (RNN). Additionally, the retained FP equations of motion are augmented by additional RNNs to capture unmodeled dynamics (e.g. nonlinearities) or improper parameter values. Simultaneously training all neural networks such that an output prediction error-based loss is minimized yields an Extension and Augmentation-based (EA) model that significantly decreases the prediction error with respect to the FP model. This methodology is applied on two use cases, one of which uses measurements performed on an industrial wire bonder. These use cases demonstrate that, also when changes are made to the FP parameters, excitation signals, and controllers, the EA model still shows significant improvement in prediction capability over the FP model. This shows that by using the FP model as a basis for model updating, the extrapolation capabilities of the resulting model are improved. Furthermore, the EA model updating method is compared with a similar, yet fully black-box, subspace-encoder network method. The EA model is shown to outperform such purely data-based models in terms of accuracy, training efficiency, and extrapolation capabilities. Finally, in contrast to the (purely data-based) subspace-encoder network method, the EA model updating method enables updating of unstable open-loop systems by embedding stabilizing controllers in the FP model.


---
# A Transfer Learning Approach to Classify InsectDiversity Based on Explainable AI

## 一种基于可解释 AI 的 InsectDiversity 分类的迁移学习方法

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5017552/latest

## 摘要翻译
This paper suggests an approach to insect identification using transfer learning combined with an explainable artificial intelligence (XAI) technique. Thisstudy represents the importance of incorporating XAI to ensure the reliabilityand trustworthiness of automated insect identification systems. The proposedresearch influences the expanding body of knowledge on advanced AI techniquesfor biological classification, paving the way for future innovations in entomology, agriculture, and ecological monitoring. Transparency and interoperabilitymade possible by the integration of XAI enable a thorough comprehension ofthe decision-making process underlying the model&rsquo;s predictions. The gradient-weighted class activation mapping, or Grad-CAM, approach is what we employ. Establishing transparency is crucial in fostering confidence in automated systemsand guaranteeing their pragmatic implementation in real-life situations. We proposed the ResNet152v2 model achieving a classification accuracy of 96% on acomprehensive dataset of 4,509 insect images, spanning 9 distinct classes. Thisapproach boosts model performance and reduces the dependency on extensivelabeled datasets.&amp;nbsp;


---
# Privacy-Preserving Non-negative Matrix Factorization for Decentralized-Data Using Correlated Noise

## 使用相关噪声的去中心化数据的隐私保护非负矩阵分解

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5044244/latest

## 摘要翻译
Several matrix factorization algorithms are employed in machine learning applications. Among these, Non-negative Matrix Factorization (NMF) gained attention due to the ability to extract meaningful features from inherently non-negative data, such as images or videos. However, such data are often privacy-sensitive, which necessitates formal privacy guarantees of the machine learning model training algorithm. Additionally, modern data are typically stored in different nodes or clients, rather than a centralized server. Conventional decentralized privacy-preserving schemes suffer from too much noise and consequently, much smaller utility compared to their centralized counterparts. This motivates us to develop an efficient privacy-preserving NMF algorithm that can operate on decentralized data, and closely approximates the performance of centralized/non-privacy-preserving approach, while offering strict privacy guarantees. We design our method and demonstrate our results in such a way that the clients/data holders have the control to select the degree of privacy guarantee based on the required utility. We show the effectiveness of our proposed algorithm on six real datasets. Our experimental results show that our proposed method easily outperforms conventional privacy-preserving scheme, while achieving close approximation of the non-privacy-preserving approach under some parameter choices.


---
# A Bdh2-driven Lysosome to Mitochondria Iron Trafficking Controls Ferroptosis in Melanoma

## Bdh2 驱动的溶酶体到线粒体铁运输控制黑色素瘤中的铁死亡

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5345588/latest

## 摘要翻译
Iron sustains cancer cell phenotypic and metabolic plasticity, yet it also sensitizes the mesenchymal/drug-tolerant persister phenotype to ferroptosis. This posits that iron compartmentalization must be tightly regulated. However, the molecular machinery governing organelle Fe2+ compartmentalization remains elusive. Here, we identified Bdh2, the mammalian homolog of the bacterial EntA, as a key effector of inter-organelle Fe2+ redistribution and ferroptosis vulnerability during melanoma transition from a melanocytic (MEL) to a mesenchymal-like (MES) phenotype. In metabolically proficient MEL cells, Bdh2 localizes at the mitochondria-lysosome contacts to generate the siderophore 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,5-DHBA) that ferries iron into the mitochondria. Fe2+ transfer by Bdh2 endorses OXPHOS and ATP production, utilized by V-ATPase for lysosomal acidification and MLC maintenance. Loss of Bdh2 expression alters lysosomal pH and MLC tethering dynamics causing lysosomal iron sequestration, which primes MES cells for ferroptosis. Rescuing Bdh2 expression, or supplementing 2,5-DHBA, rectifies lysosomal pH and MLCs, protecting MES cells from ferroptosis and enhancing their ability to metastasize through the bloodstream. Thus, we unveiled a Bdh2-dependent evolutionary-conserved mechanism that orchestrates inter-organelle Fe2+ transfer, linking metabolic regulation of lysosomal pH to the ferroptosis vulnerability of the MES/drug-tolerant persister cells.

