# Relaxation Dynamics of Entangled Linear Polymer Melts via Molecular Dynamics Simulations

## 分子动力学模拟的缠结线性聚合物熔体的弛豫动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17953

arXiv:2411.17953v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We present an extensive analysis of the relaxation dynamics of entangled linear polymer melts via long-time molecular dynamics simulations of a generic bead-spring model. We study the mean-squared displacements, the autocorrelation function of the end-to-end vector, $P(t)$, the single-chain dynamic structure factor, $S(q,t)$, and the linear viscoelastic properties, especially the shear stress relaxation modulus, $G(t)$. The simulation data are compared with the theoretically expected scaling laws for different time regimes of entangled melts, and with analytical expressions that account for different relaxation mechanisms in the tube model, namely, reptation, contour length fluctuation (CLF), and constraint release (CR). CLF involves a $t^{1/4}$ scaling regime in the time-dependence of $(1-P(t))$. With increasing chain length, a gradual development of this scaling regime is observed. In the absence of CR, the tube model further predicts that at long times, the chain dynamics is governed by one central quantity, the ``surviving tube fraction'' $\mu(t)$. As a result, one expects $S(q,t) \propto G(t) \propto P(t)$ in that time regime. We test this prediction by comparing $S(q,t)$ and $G(t)$ with $P(t)$. For both quantities, proportionality with $P(t)$ is not observed, indicating that CR has an important effect on the relaxation of these two quantities. Instead, to a very good approximation, we find $G(t)\propto P(t)^{2}$ at late times, which is consistent with the dynamic tube dilation or double reptation approximations for the CR process. In addition, we calculate non-local mobility functions, which can be used in dynamic density functional theories for entangled inhomogeneous polymer blends, and discuss the effect of entanglements on the shape of these functions.


---
# Accurate electron correlation-energy functional: Expansion in an interaction renormalized by the random-phase approximation

## 精确的电子相关能量函数: 通过随机相位近似重新归一化的相互作用中的扩展

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18371

arXiv:2411.18371v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We present an accurate local density-functional for electronic-structure calculations within the density functional theory (DFT). The functional is derived by analyzing the structure of the standard perturbative expansion of the correlation energy of the interacting uniform electron gas. Then, the expansion is partially re-summed and reorganized as a self-consistent series in powers of a renormalized electron-electron interaction vertex based on the screened frequency-momentum dependent dielectric matrix given by the well-known random-phase approximation. First, we demonstrate that the range of $r_s$, where this reorganized and renormalized series converges, contains and is significantly larger than the average range realized in real crystalline materials. Using a combination of analytical, numerical, and stochastic integration techniques we are able to calculate all the diagrams which have contribution up to the same leading order. We benchmarked the functional using the Quantum ESPRESSO implementation of the DFT applied to the same list of materials, selected previously by other authors, in its entirety without any modification of the list. We find that for ground-state properties in general, such as, equilibrium atomic distances and bulk moduli, the functional presented here is more accurate than the currently available most popular one.


---
# SPARC-X-API: Versatile Python Interface for Real-space Density Functional Theory Calculations

## Sparc-x-api: 用于实空间密度泛函理论计算的通用Python接口

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18024

arXiv:2411.18024v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Density Functional Theory (DFT) is the de facto workhorse for large-scale electronic structure calculations in chemistry and materials science. While plane-wave DFT implementations remain the most widely used, real-space DFT provides advantages in handling complex boundary conditions and scaling to very large systems by allowing for the efficient use of large-scale supercomputers and linear-scaling methods that circumvent the cubic scaling bottleneck. The SPARC-X project (https://github.com/SPARC-X) provides highly efficient and portable real-space DFT codes for a wide range of first principle applications, available in both Matlab (M-SPARC) and C/C++ (SPARC). The rapid growth of SPARC's feature set has created the need for a fully functional interface to drive SPARC in high-throughput calculations. Here we introduce SPARC-X-API, a Python package designed to bridge the SPARC-X project with broader computational frameworks. Built on the atomic simulation environment (ASE) standard, the SPARC-X-API allows users to handle SPARC file formats and run SPARC calculations through the same interface as with other ASE-compatible DFT packages. Beyond standard ASE capabilities, SPARC-X-API provides additional features including 1) support of SPARC-specific setups, including complex boundary conditions and unit conversion, 2) a JSON schema parsed from SPARC's documentation for parameter validation and compatibility checks, and 3) a comprehensive socket communication layer derived from the i-PI protocol facilitating message passing between low-level C code and the Python interface. The goal of the SPARC-X-API is to provide an easy-to-use interface for users with diverse needs and levels of expertise, allowing for minimal effort in adapting SPARC to existing computational workflows, while also supporting developers of advanced real-space methods.


---
# Intrinsic Quantum Mpemba Effect in Markovian Systems and Quantum Circuits

## 马尔可夫系统和量子电路中的本征量子Mpemba效应

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18417

arXiv:2411.18417v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: The quantum Mpemba effect (QME) describes the counterintuitive phenomenon in which a system farther from equilibrium reaches steady state faster than one closer to equilibrium. However, ambiguity in defining a suitable distance measure between quantum states has led to varied interpretations across different contexts. Here we propose the intrinsic quantum Mpemba effect (IQME), defined using the trajectory length traced by the quantum state as a more appropriate measure of distance--distinct from previous trajectory-independent metrics. By treating quantum states as points in a Riemannian space defined by statistical distance, the trajectory length emerges as a more natural and accurate characterization of the counterintuitive dynamics, drawing an analogy to the classical Brachistochrone problem. We demonstrate the existence of IQME in Markovian systems and extend its definition to quantum circuits, thereby establishing a unified framework applicable to both open and closed systems. Notably, we observe an IQME in a $U(1)$-symmetric circuit, offering new insights into the rates of quantum thermalization for different initial states. This work deepens our understanding of quantum state evolution and lays the foundation for accurately capturing novel quantum dynamical behaviour.


---
# GPU-Accelerated Solution of the Bethe-Salpeter Equation for Large and Heterogeneous Systems

## 大型异构系统的behe-salpeter方程的GPU加速解

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.15116

arXiv:2409.15116v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We present a massively parallel, GPU-accelerated implementation of the Bethe-Salpeter equation (BSE) for the calculation of the vertical excitation energies (VEEs) and optical absorption spectra of condensed and molecular systems, starting from single-particle eigenvalues and eigenvectors obtained with density functional theory. The algorithms adopted here circumvent the slowly converging sums over empty and occupied states and the inversion of large dielectric matrices, through a density matrix perturbation theory approach and a low-rank decomposition of the screened Coulomb interaction, respectively. Further computational savings are achieved by exploiting the nearsightedness of the density matrix of semiconductors and insulators to reduce the number of screened Coulomb integrals. We scale our calculations to thousands of GPUs with a hierarchical loop and data distribution strategy. The efficacy of our method is demonstrated by computing the VEEs of several spin defects in wide-band-gap materials, showing that supercells with up to 1000 atoms are necessary to obtain converged results. We discuss the validity of the common approximation that solves the BSE with truncated sums over empty and occupied states. We then apply our GW-BSE implementation to a diamond lattice with 1727 atoms to study the symmetry breaking of triplet states caused by the interaction of a point defect with an extended line defect.


---
# AI-driven inverse design of materials: Past, present and future

## 人工智能驱动的材料逆向设计: 过去、现在和未来

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.09429

arXiv:2411.09429v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: The discovery of advanced materials is the cornerstone of human technological development and progress. The structures of materials and their corresponding properties are essentially the result of a complex interplay of multiple degrees of freedom such as lattice, charge, spin, symmetry, and topology. This poses significant challenges for the inverse design methods of materials. Humans have long explored new materials through a large number of experiments and proposed corresponding theoretical systems to predict new material properties and structures. With the improvement of computational power, researchers have gradually developed various electronic structure calculation methods, such as the density functional theory and high-throughput computational methods. Recently, the rapid development of artificial intelligence technology in the field of computer science has enabled the effective characterization of the implicit association between material properties and structures, thus opening up an efficient paradigm for the inverse design of functional materials. A significant progress has been made in inverse design of materials based on generative and discriminative models, attracting widespread attention from researchers. Considering this rapid technological progress, in this survey, we look back on the latest advancements in AI-driven inverse design of materials by introducing the background, key findings, and mainstream technological development routes. In addition, we summarize the remaining issues for future directions. This survey provides the latest overview of AI-driven inverse design of materials, which can serve as a useful resource for researchers.


---
# Quantum dynamics of photophysical aggregates in conjugated polymers

## 共轭聚合物中光物理聚集体的量子动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14675

arXiv:2411.14675v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Photophysical aggregates are ubiquitous in many solid-state microstructures adopted by conjugated polymers, in which $\pi$ electrons interact with those in other polymer chains or those in other chromophores along the chain. These interactions fundamentally define the electronic and optical properties of the polymer film. While valuable insight can be gained from linear excitation and photoluminescence spectra, nonlinear coherent excitation spectral lineshapes provide intricate understanding on the electronic couplings that define the aggregate and their fluctuations. Here, we discuss the coherent two-dimensional excitation lineshape of a model hairy-rod conjugated polymer. At zero population waiting time, we find a $\pi/2$ phase shift between the 0-0 and 0-1 vibronic peaks in the real and imaginary components of the complex coherent spectrum, as well as a dynamic phase rotation with population waiting time over timescales that are longer than the optical dephasing time. We conjecture that these are markers of relaxation of the photophysical aggregate down the tight manifold of the exciton band. These results highlight the potential for coherent spectroscopy via analysis of the complex spectral lineshape to become a key tool to develop structure-property relationships in complex functional materials.


---
# Quantum nonlinear effects in the number-conserving analogue gravity of Bose-Einstein condensates

## 玻色-爱因斯坦凝聚体的数保持模拟引力中的量子非线性效应

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13596

arXiv:2410.13596v3 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: We consider the quantum dynamics of Bose-Einstein condensates at absolute zero, and demonstrate that an analogue gravity model going beyond the standard linearized analogue gravity paradigm \`a la Unruh must take into account the backreaction of quasiparticle excitations onto the condensate background. This requires that one expands to second order in perturbation amplitude and thus takes the intrinsic nonlinearity of the theory into account. It is shown that, as a result, significant modifications of the standard paradigm occur. In particular, to obtain a fully Lorentz-covariant equation in curved spacetime for second-order perturbations, we demonstrate that it is necessary to introduce, to leading order in powers of the formal mean-field expansion parameter $N^{-1/2}$ (where $N$ is total particle number), a quantum-fluctuation-renormalized spacetime metric which substantially differs from the Unruh acoustic spacetime metric and, to subleading order $1/N$, two emergent vector fields and a mass term. Both the renormalized metric as well as the vector fields and the mass then keep track of the backreaction of the quasiparticles onto the condensate up to the order in powers of $N^{-1/2}$ considered. Finally, we apply our formalism to an analogue-cosmological Friedmann-Lema\^{i}tre-Robertson-Walker metric and establish its renormalized form due to the quantum many-body backreaction exerted by the excitation cloud.


---
# Density-Functionalized QM/MM Delivers Chemical Accuracy For Solvated Systems

## 密度功能化QM/MM为溶剂化系统提供化学精度

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17844

arXiv:2411.17844v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We present a reformulation of QM/MM as a fully quantum mechanical theory of interacting subsystems, all treated at the level of density functional theory (DFT). For the MM subsystem, which lacks orbitals, we assign an ad hoc electron density and apply orbital-free DFT functionals to describe its quantum properties. The interaction between the QM and MM subsystems is also treated using orbital-free density functionals, accounting for Coulomb interactions, exchange, correlation, and Pauli repulsion. Consistency across QM and MM subsystems is ensured by employing data-driven, many-body MM force fields that faithfully represent DFT functionals. Applications to water-solvated systems demonstrate that this approach achieves unprecedented, very rapid convergence to chemical accuracy as the size of the QM subsystem increases. We validate the method with several pilot studies, including water bulk, water clusters (prism hexamer and pentamers), solvated glucose, a palladium aqua ion, and a wet monolayer of MoS$_2$.


---
# SPARC-X-API: Versatile Python Interface for Real-space Density Functional Theory Calculations

## Sparc-x-api: 用于实空间密度泛函理论计算的通用Python接口

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18024

arXiv:2411.18024v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Density Functional Theory (DFT) is the de facto workhorse for large-scale electronic structure calculations in chemistry and materials science. While plane-wave DFT implementations remain the most widely used, real-space DFT provides advantages in handling complex boundary conditions and scaling to very large systems by allowing for the efficient use of large-scale supercomputers and linear-scaling methods that circumvent the cubic scaling bottleneck. The SPARC-X project (https://github.com/SPARC-X) provides highly efficient and portable real-space DFT codes for a wide range of first principle applications, available in both Matlab (M-SPARC) and C/C++ (SPARC). The rapid growth of SPARC's feature set has created the need for a fully functional interface to drive SPARC in high-throughput calculations. Here we introduce SPARC-X-API, a Python package designed to bridge the SPARC-X project with broader computational frameworks. Built on the atomic simulation environment (ASE) standard, the SPARC-X-API allows users to handle SPARC file formats and run SPARC calculations through the same interface as with other ASE-compatible DFT packages. Beyond standard ASE capabilities, SPARC-X-API provides additional features including 1) support of SPARC-specific setups, including complex boundary conditions and unit conversion, 2) a JSON schema parsed from SPARC's documentation for parameter validation and compatibility checks, and 3) a comprehensive socket communication layer derived from the i-PI protocol facilitating message passing between low-level C code and the Python interface. The goal of the SPARC-X-API is to provide an easy-to-use interface for users with diverse needs and levels of expertise, allowing for minimal effort in adapting SPARC to existing computational workflows, while also supporting developers of advanced real-space methods.


---
# Nonadiabatic Quantum Dynamics of Molecules Scattering from Metal Surfaces

## 从金属表面散射的分子的非绝热量子动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.05142

arXiv:2410.05142v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Nonadiabatic coupling between electrons and molecular motion at metal surfaces leads to energy dissipation and dynamical steering effects during chemical surface dynamics. We present a theoretical approach to the scattering of molecules from metal surfaces that incorporates all nonadiabatic and quantum nuclear effects due to the coupling of the molecular degrees of freedom to the electrons in the metal. This is achieved with the hierarchical equations of motion (HEOM) approach combined with a matrix product state representation in twin space. The method is applied to the scattering of nitric oxide from Au(111), for which strongly nonadiabatic energy loss during scattering has been experimentally observed, thus presenting a significant theoretical challenge. Since the HEOM approach treats the molecule-surface coupling exactly, it captures the interplay between nonadiabatic and quantum nuclear effects. Finally, the data obtained by the HEOM approach is used as a rigorous benchmark to assess various mixed quantum-classical methods, from which we derive insights into the mechanisms of energy dissipation and the suitable working regimes of each method.


---
# GPU-Accelerated Solution of the Bethe-Salpeter Equation for Large and Heterogeneous Systems

## 大型异构系统的behe-salpeter方程的GPU加速解

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.15116

arXiv:2409.15116v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: We present a massively parallel, GPU-accelerated implementation of the Bethe-Salpeter equation (BSE) for the calculation of the vertical excitation energies (VEEs) and optical absorption spectra of condensed and molecular systems, starting from single-particle eigenvalues and eigenvectors obtained with density functional theory. The algorithms adopted here circumvent the slowly converging sums over empty and occupied states and the inversion of large dielectric matrices, through a density matrix perturbation theory approach and a low-rank decomposition of the screened Coulomb interaction, respectively. Further computational savings are achieved by exploiting the nearsightedness of the density matrix of semiconductors and insulators to reduce the number of screened Coulomb integrals. We scale our calculations to thousands of GPUs with a hierarchical loop and data distribution strategy. The efficacy of our method is demonstrated by computing the VEEs of several spin defects in wide-band-gap materials, showing that supercells with up to 1000 atoms are necessary to obtain converged results. We discuss the validity of the common approximation that solves the BSE with truncated sums over empty and occupied states. We then apply our GW-BSE implementation to a diamond lattice with 1727 atoms to study the symmetry breaking of triplet states caused by the interaction of a point defect with an extended line defect.


---
# Quantum dynamics of photophysical aggregates in conjugated polymers

## 共轭聚合物中光物理聚集体的量子动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14675

arXiv:2411.14675v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Photophysical aggregates are ubiquitous in many solid-state microstructures adopted by conjugated polymers, in which $\pi$ electrons interact with those in other polymer chains or those in other chromophores along the chain. These interactions fundamentally define the electronic and optical properties of the polymer film. While valuable insight can be gained from linear excitation and photoluminescence spectra, nonlinear coherent excitation spectral lineshapes provide intricate understanding on the electronic couplings that define the aggregate and their fluctuations. Here, we discuss the coherent two-dimensional excitation lineshape of a model hairy-rod conjugated polymer. At zero population waiting time, we find a $\pi/2$ phase shift between the 0-0 and 0-1 vibronic peaks in the real and imaginary components of the complex coherent spectrum, as well as a dynamic phase rotation with population waiting time over timescales that are longer than the optical dephasing time. We conjecture that these are markers of relaxation of the photophysical aggregate down the tight manifold of the exciton band. These results highlight the potential for coherent spectroscopy via analysis of the complex spectral lineshape to become a key tool to develop structure-property relationships in complex functional materials.


---
# Unravelling the Photodissociative Mechanism of CO-Release in Re(I) Tricarbonyl Complex Using Density Functional Theory

## 使用密度泛函理论阐明Re(I) 三羰基配合物中共释放的光解机理

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-p132r?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

The mechanism of the CO ligand dissociation of [Re(CO)3(Pyta)(TPP))]+ complex in aqueous medium has been investigated theoretically, as the dominant process of the photochemical ligand substitution (PLS) reaction of [Re(CO)3(Pyta)(TPP))]+, by using density functional theory (DFT). The PLS reactivity can be determined by the topology of the lowest triplet potential energy surface because the photoexcited complex is able to decay into lowest triplet state via intersystem crossing and internal conversion with sufficiently low energy barriers. The lowest triplet state has a character of metal-to-ligand-charge-transfer (3MLCT) around the Franck-Condon region, and it shifts to metal-centered (3MC) state as the axial Re-CO bond is bend and elongated. The equatorial CO ligand is not dissociated in the course of PLS reaction and only axial CO ligand is selectively dissociated. This study reveals that the 3MC connecting the 3MLCT is not dissociative in nature, rather, the dissociative 3MC is reached via multiple 3MCs. We also predict that the photoproduct [Re(CO)2(CH3CN)(Pyta)(TPP))]+ is formed  via the formation of a singlet-adduct. The insights provided in this study shed light on, not-all 3MCs are dissociative in nature, and a step forward towards rationally-designing novel PhotoCORMs.


---
# Anisotropic Node Distortions in Amorphous MOFs: Low Valent Zr Sites as Catalytic Hotspots

## 非晶态mof中的各向异性节点畸变: 低价Zr位点作为催化热点

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-56r8t?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

We introduce a new approach to defect engineering in Zr-based metal-organic frameworks (Zr-MOFs), aiming to reduce Zr site valency while preserving high node connectivity. Using a rapid heat treatment (RHT) in humid air, O-vacancies were created in DUT-67 through cluster dehydration. Unlike conventional defect engineering, aimed at creating missing-linker defects, this method breaks intra-cluster Zr-μ3O-Zr bonds, generating coordinatively unsaturated Zr (Zrcus) sites. Pair-distribution functon(PDF) analysis, X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS), and density functional theory (DFT) calculations reveal that the O-vacancies lead to symmetry breaking, irreversible node distortions, and framework amorphization. This treatment converts 50% of metal sites to Zrcus sites, nearly doubling the catalytic activity of DUT-67 in glyoxal conversion to glycolic acid. DFT modeling and in situ PDF analysis highlight the dynamic behavior of Zr clusters under reaction conditions, suggesting a new avenue for defect engineering in Zr-MOFs to enhance catalytic performance.


---
# Chemically Induced Formation of C-Cu Covalent Bonds at the CVD-Graphene/Single Crystal Cu(111) Interface

## 化学诱导在CVD-石墨烯/单晶Cu(111) 界面形成c-cu共价键

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5532007/latest

Partial hydrogenation of the open surface of graphene, epitaxially grown by chemical vapor deposition (CVD) on a Cu(111) substrate, leads to the formation of a crystalline sp&sup3; hybridized carbon monolayer stabilized by interface C-Cu covalent bonding. This transition is reversible, with heating yielding almost complete restoration of the original graphene-copper structure. The graphene-Cu system is characterized by weak van der Waals interactions and this is the first transformation to yield C-Cu bonding. Through extensive spectroscopic characterization (Raman, X-ray photoelectron, X-ray absorption fine structure and valence-band photoemission spectroscopies) and theoretical analysis based on density functional theory (DFT), we find transformation from weak van der Waals binding in the graphene-Cu system to covalent bonding between partially (topside) hydrogenated graphene and the Cu(111) surface, with the potential to revert back to its initial physisorbed state via dehydrogenation through heating. This reversible control over the graphene-Cu interaction opens new avenues for the design and manipulation of graphene-based devices. Furthermore, this sp&sup3; hybridized carbon monolayer, with its C-metal substrate bonds, could potentially serve as a seed layer for the growth of large-area diamond films.

