# Computationally efficient method for calculating electron-phonon coupling for high-throughput superconductivity screening

## 用于高通量超导筛选的电子-声子耦合的计算有效方法

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.110.184517

Author(s): Oliver A. Dicks, Kateryna Foyevtsova, Ilya Elfimov, Rohit P. Prasankumar, and George Sawatzky<br /><p>Using a computationally inexpensive frozen phonon approach we have developed a technique which can be used to screen large unit cell materials and systems for enhanced superconducting critical temperatures. The method requires only density functional theory calculated electronic band structures of p…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 110, 184517] Published Thu Nov 21, 2024


---
# Resolving phonon-mediated superconducting pairing symmetries from first-principles calculation

## 通过第一性原理计算解决声子介导的超导配对对称性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.12991

arXiv:2411.12991v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Thequest for topological superconductors triggers revived interests in resolving non-s-wave pairing channels mediated by phonons. While density functional theory and denstify functional perturbtaion theory have established a powerful framework to calculate electron-phonon couplings in real materials in a first-principles way, its application is largely limited to conventional s-wave superconductivity. Here, we formulate an efficient and simple-to-use algorithm for first-principles pairing channel analysis, and apply it to several representative material systems.


---
# Shear-resistant topology in quasi one-dimensional van der Waals material Bi$_4$Br$_4$

## 准一维范德华材料Bi $_4 $ B r $_4 $ 中的抗剪拓扑

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13320

arXiv:2411.13320v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Bi$_4$Br$_4$ is a prototypical quasi one-dimensional (1D) material in which covalently bonded bismuth bromide chains are arranged in parallel, side-by-side and layer-by-layer, with van der Waals (vdW) gaps in between. So far, two different structures have been reported for this compound, $\alpha$-Bi$_4$Br$_4$ and $\beta$-Bi$_4$Br$_4$ , in both of which neighboring chains are shifted by $\mathbf{b}/2$, i.e., half a unit cell vector in the plane, but which differ in their vertical stacking. While the different layer arrangements are known to result in distinct electronic properties, the effect of possible in-plane shifts between the atomic chains remains an open question. Here, using scanning tunneling microscopy and spectroscopy (STM/STS), we report a new Bi$_4$Br$_4$(001) structure, with a shift of $\mathbf{b}/3$ between neighboring chains in the plane and AB layer stacking. We determine shear strain to be the origin of this new structure, which can readily result in shifts of neighboring atomic chains because of the weak inter-chain bonding. For the observed $b/3$ structure, the (residual) atomic chain shift corresponds to an in-plane shear strain of $\gamma\approx7.5\%$. STS reveals a bulk insulating gap and metallic edge states at surface steps, indicating that the new structure is also a higher-order topological insulator, just like $\alpha$-Bi$_4$Br$_4$, in agreement with density functional theory (DFT) calculations.


---
# The Dean-Kawasaki equation and stochastic density functional theory

## Dean-Kawasaki方程与随机密度泛函理论

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13467

arXiv:2411.13467v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The Dean-Kawasaki (DK) equation, which is at the basis of stochastic density functional theory (SDFT), was proposed in the mid-nineties to describe the evolution of the density of interacting Brownian particles, which can represent a large number of systems such as colloidal suspensions, supercooled liquids, polymer melts, biological molecules, active or chemotactic particles, or ions in solution. This theoretical framework, which can be summarized as a mathematical reformulation of the coupled overdamped Langevin equations that govern the dynamics of the particles, has attracted a significant amount of attention during the past thirty years. In this review, I present the context in which this framework was introduced, and I recall the main assumptions and calculation techniques that are employed to derive the DK equation. Then, in the broader context of statistical mechanics, I show how SDFT is connected to other theories, such fluctuating hydrodynamics, macroscopic fluctuation theory, or mode-coupling theory. The mathematical questions that are raised by the DK equation are presented in a non-specialist language. In the last parts of the review, I show how the original result was extended in several directions, I present the different strategies and approximations that have been employed to solve the DK equation, both analytically and numerically. I finally list the different situations where SDFT was employed to describe the fluctuations of Brownian suspensions, from the physics of active matter to the description of charged particles and electrolytes.


---
# New insight into quantifying vacancy distribution in self-ion irradiated tungsten: a combined experimental and computational study

## 量化自离子辐照钨中空位分布的新见解: 结合实验和计算研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13480

arXiv:2411.13480v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: In this work, we propose a new approach based on positron annihilation spectroscopy to estimate the concentration of vacancy-type defects induced by self-ion irradiation in tungsten at room temperature, 500, and 700{\deg}C. Using experimental and Two-component density functional theory calculated annihilation characteristics of various vacancy clusters V$_{n}$ ($n$=1-65) and a positron trapping model associated with the simulated annealing algorithm, vacancy cluster concentration distribution could be extracted from experimental data. The method was validated against simulation results for room-temperature irradiation and transmission electron microscopy observations for higher temperatures. After irradiation at 500 and 700{\deg}C, small clusters (<20 vacancies, ~0.85 nm) undetectable by TEM were unveiled, with concentrations exceeding 10$^{25}$ m$^{-3}$, significantly higher than the concentration of TEM-visible defects (10$^{24}$ m$^{-3}$). Moreover, incorporating an oxygen-vacancy complex is deemed necessary to accurately replicate experimental data in samples subjected to high-temperature irradiation.


---
# The d-electron contribution to the stopping power of transition metals

## d电子对过渡金属的阻止能力的贡献

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.12810

arXiv:2411.12810v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We present a new non-perturbative model to describe the stopping power by ionization of the $d$-electrons of transition metals. These metals are characterized by the filling of the d-subshell and the promotion of part of the electrons to the conduction band. The contribution of d-electrons at low-impact energies has been noted experimentally in the past as a break of the linear dependence of the stopping power with the ion velocity. In this contribution, we describe the response of these electrons considering the atomic "inhomogeneous" momentum distribution. We focus on the transition metals of Groups 10 and 11 in the periodic table: Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, and Au. Results describe the low energy-stopping power, with good agreement with the experimental data and available TDDFT results. By combining the present non-perturbative model for the $d$-subshell contribution with other approaches for the valence electrons and for the inner shells, we provide a coherent theoretical method capable of describing the stopping power of these transition metals from the very low to the high energy region.


---
# First-principles investigation of elastic, vibrational, and thermodynamic properties of kagome metals CsM$_3$Te$_5$ (M = Ti, Zr, Hf)

## kagome金属CsM $_3 $ Te $_5 $ (M = Ti，Zr，Hf) 的弹性、振动和热力学性质的第一性原理研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.10978

arXiv:2408.10978v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Kagome metals are a unique class of quantum materials characterized by their distinct atomic lattice arrangement, featuring interlocking triangles and expansive hexagonal voids. These lattice structures impart exotic properties, including superconductivity, interaction-driven topological many-body phenomena, and magnetism, among others. The kagome metal CsM3Te5 (where M = Ti, Zr, or Hf) exhibits both superconductivity and nontrivial topological electronic properties, offering a promising platform for exploring topological superconductivity. This study employs first-principles density functional theory calculations to systematically analyze the elastic, mechanical, vibrational, thermodynamic, and electronic properties of CsM3Te5 (M = Ti, Zr, Hf). Our calculations reveal that the studied compounds - CsTi3Te5, CsZr3Te5, and CsHf3Te5 - are ductile metals with elastic properties akin to the hexagonal Bi and Sb, with average elastic constants, including a bulk modulus of 27 GPa, a shear modulus of 11 GPa, and Young's modulus of 29 GPa. We observe peculiar dispersionless, flat, phonon branches in the vibrational spectra of these metals. Additionally, we thoroughly analyze the symmetries of the zone-center phonon eigenvectors and predict vibrational fingerprints of the Raman- and infrared-active phonon modes. The analysis of thermodynamic properties reveals the Einstein temperature for CsTi3Te5, CsZr3Te5, and CsHf3Te5 to be 66, 54, and 53 K, respectively. Our orbital-decomposed electronic structure calculations reveal significant in-plane steric interactions and multiple Dirac band crossings near the Fermi level. We further investigate the role of spin-orbit coupling effect on the studied properties. This theoretical investigation sheds light on the intriguing quantum behaviour of kagome metals.


---
# Accurate Electron-phonon Interactions from Advanced Density Functional Theory

## 基于先进密度泛函理论的精确电子-声子相互作用

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.08192

arXiv:2411.08192v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Electron-phonon coupling (EPC) is key for understanding many properties of materials such as superconductivity and electric resistivity. Although first principles density-functional-theory (DFT) based EPC calculations are used widely, their efficacy is limited by the accuracy and efficiency of the underlying exchange-correlation functionals. These limitations become exacerbated in complex $d$- and $f$-electron materials, where beyond-DFT approaches and empirical corrections, such as the Hubbard $U$, are commonly invoked. Here, using the examples of CoO and NiO, we show how the efficient r2scan density functional correctly captures strong EPC effects in transition-metal oxides without requiring the introduction of empirical parameters. We also demonstrate the ability of r2scan to accurately model phonon-mediated superconducting properties of the main group compounds (e.g., MgB$_2$), with improved electronic bands and phonon dispersions over those of traditional density functionals. Our study provides a pathway for extending the scope of accurate first principles modeling of electron-phonon interactions to encompass complex $d$-electron materials.


---
# The d-electron contribution to the stopping power of transition metals

## d电子对过渡金属的阻止能力的贡献

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.12810

arXiv:2411.12810v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We present a new non-perturbative model to describe the stopping power by ionization of the $d$-electrons of transition metals. These metals are characterized by the filling of the d-subshell and the promotion of part of the electrons to the conduction band. The contribution of d-electrons at low-impact energies has been noted experimentally in the past as a break of the linear dependence of the stopping power with the ion velocity. In this contribution, we describe the response of these electrons considering the atomic "inhomogeneous" momentum distribution. We focus on the transition metals of Groups 10 and 11 in the periodic table: Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, and Au. Results describe the low energy-stopping power, with good agreement with the experimental data and available TDDFT results. By combining the present non-perturbative model for the $d$-subshell contribution with other approaches for the valence electrons and for the inner shells, we provide a coherent theoretical method capable of describing the stopping power of these transition metals from the very low to the high energy region.


---
# The vDZP Basis Set Is Effective For Many Density Functionals

## vDZP基集对许多密度泛函有效

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13253

arXiv:2411.13253v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: In recent years, "composite" density-functional-theory-based methods comprising specially optimized combinations of functionals, basis sets, and empirical corrections have become widely used owing to their robustness and computational efficiency, but the bespoke nature of these methods makes them challenging to develop. Here, we report that the recently reported vDZP basis set can be used in combination with a wide variety of density functionals to produce efficient and accurate results comparable to those obtained with composite methods, but without any method- or correction-specific reparameterization. This result enables rapid quantum chemical calculations to be run with a variety of density functionals without the typical errors incurred by small basis sets.


---
# Accuracy of Kohn-Sham density functional theory for warm- and hot-dense matter equation of state

## Kohn-sham密度泛函理论对温-热-稠密物质状态方程的准确性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.08132

arXiv:2308.08132v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We study the accuracy of Kohn-Sham density functional theory (DFT) for warm- and hot-dense matter (WDM and HDM). Specifically, considering a wide range of systems, we perform accurate ab initio molecular dynamics simulations with temperature-independent local/semilocal density functionals to determine the equations of state at compression ratios of 3x--7x and temperatures near 1 MK. We find very good agreement with path integral Monte Carlo benchmarks, while having significantly smaller error bars and smoother data, demonstrating the accuracy of DFT for the study of WDM and HDM at such conditions. In addition, using a $\Delta$-machine learned force field scheme, we confirm that the DFT results are insensitive to the choice of exchange-correlation functional, whether local, semilocal, or nonlocal.


---
# Bringing multilevel quantum master equations into Lindblad form for complete positivity tests: Two approaches

## 将多级量子主方程带入Lindblad形式以进行完整的正性测试: 两种方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.00353

arXiv:2410.00353v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: While quantum master equations (QMEs) are the primary workhorse in quantum information science, quantum optics, spectroscopy, and quantum thermodynamics, bringing an arbitrary $N$-level QME into Lindbladian form and verifying complete positivity of the associated quantum dynamical map remain open challenges for $N\ge 3$. We explore and implement two independent methods to accomplish these tasks, which enable one to directly compute the Kossakowski matrix of an arbitrary Markovian QME from its Liouvillian. In the first method, due to Hall, Cresser, Li, and Andersson, the Kossakowski matrix elements are obtained by evaluating the action of the Liouvillian on the orthonormal SU($N$) basis matrices and then computing a sum of matrix-product traces. The second method, developed in this work, is based on the real $N$-level coherence vector and relies on the Moore-Penrose pseudo-inverse of a rectangular matrix composed of the structure constants of SU$(N)$. We show that both methods give identical results, and apply them to establish the complete positivity of the partial secular Bloch-Redfield QME for the $\Lambda$ and V-systems driven by incoherent light. We find that the eigenvalues of the Kossakowski matrix of these seemingly different three-level systems are identical, implying close similarities of their dissipative dynamics. By facilitating the expression of multilevel Markovian QMEs in Lindblad form, our results enable testing the QMEs for complete positivity without solving them, as well as restoring complete positivity by keeping only non-negative eigenvalues of the Kossakowski matrix.


---
# Gamma-irradiation Induced Nonconventional Fluorescence Enhancement in Silicone Foams

## 有机硅泡沫中 γ 辐射引起的非常规荧光增强

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5384154/latest

An unexpected fluorescence enhancement phenomenon in silicone foams induced by gamma-irradiation is reported. These materials contain no traditional luminophores. The fluorescence intensity increases with the absorbed dose (within 1000 Gy). Time-dependent density functional theory (TDDFT) calculations suggest that the mechanism is a crosslinking-enabled emission process, which is enhanced by gamma-irradiation. The fluorescence changes are visible and can even applied to distinguish irradiated silicone foam samples with absorbed doses less than 25 Gy, achieving sensitive visualization of gamma-irradiation damage. The potential applications for radiation damage self-reporting and information encryption are demonstrated. The fluorescence intensity shows similar trends with radiolysis gas products (typical aging parameter) in early-stage irradiation, which can represent radiation-induced crosslinking and radiolysis respectively to reveal the changes of materials after low dose irradiation from two aspects. This work could broaden the application of nonconventional fluorescent materials and help understand the effects of low-dose radiation on silicone materials.

