# Exact nuclear cusps in all-electron orbital-free density functional theory

## 全电子无轨道密度泛函理论中的精确核尖

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.110.195146

Author(s): Michael J. Hutcheon and Andrew M. Wibowo-Teale<br /><p>We obtain near-exact cusp behavior in a self-consistent orbital-free density functional theory treatment of atomic and molecular systems, with standard kinetic energy functionals, by the introduction of a physically motivated cost functional. The electron density, and its gradient and Laplacian, are…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 110, 195146] Published Fri Nov 22, 2024


---
# Light-induced renormalization of the band structure of chiral tellurium

## 手性碲能带结构的光诱导重整化

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13954

arXiv:2411.13954v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Chirality in tellurium derives from a Peierls distortion driven by strong electron-phonon coupling, making this material a unique candidate for observing a light-induced topological phase transition. By using time- and angle-resolved photoelectron spectroscopy (trARPES), we reveal that upon near-infrared photoexcitation the Peierls gap is modulated by displacively excited coherent phonons with $\mathrm{A_{1g}}$ symmetry as well as chiral-symmetry-breaking $\mathrm{E'_{LO}}$ modes. By comparison with state-of-the-art TDDFT+U calculations, we reveal the microscopic origin of the in-phase oscillations of band edges, due to phonon-induced modulation of the effective Hubbard $U$ term.


---
# Octahedral tilt-driven phase transitions in BaZrS3 chalcogenide perovskite

## BaZrS3硫属元素化物钙钛矿中的八面体倾斜驱动相变

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14289

arXiv:2411.14289v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Chalcogenide perovskites are lead-free materials for potential photovoltaic or thermoelectric applications. BaZrS$_3$ is the most studied member of this family due to its superior thermal and chemical stability, desirable optoelectronic properties, and low thermal conductivity. Phase transitions of the BaZrS$_3$ perovskite are under-explored in literature as most experimental characterization is performed at ambient conditions where the orthorhombic Pnma phase is reported to be stable. In this work, we study the dynamics of BaZrS$_3$ across a range of temperatures and pressures using an accurate machine-learned interatomic potential trained with data from hybrid density functional theory calculations. At 0Pa, we find a first-order phase transition from the orthorhombic to tetragonal I4/mcm phase at 610K, and a second-order transition from the tetragonal to the cubic Pm-3m phase at 880K. The tetragonal phase is stable over a larger temperature range at higher pressures. To confirm the validity of our model we report the static structure factor as a function of temperature and compare our results with published experimental data.


---
# How Semilocal Are Semilocal Density Functional Approximations? -Tackling Self-Interaction Error in One-Electron Systems

## 半位置密度泛函近似有多半位置？-解决单电子系统中的自相互作用误差

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.08887

arXiv:2410.08887v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Self-interaction error (SIE), arising from the imperfect cancellation of the spurious classical Coulomb interaction between an electron and itself, is a persistent challenge in modern density functional approximations. This issue is illustrated using the prototypical one-electron system $H_2^+$. While significant efforts have been made to eliminate SIE through the development of computationally expensive nonlocal density functionals, it is equally important to explore whether SIE can be mitigated within the framework of more efficient semilocal density functionals. In this study, we present a non-empirical meta-generalized gradient approximation (meta-GGA) that incorporates the Laplacian of the electron density. Our results demonstrate that the meta-GGA significantly reduces SIE, yielding a binding energy curve for $H_2^+$ that matches the exact solution at equilibrium and improves across a broad range of bond lengths over those of the Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof (PBE) and strongly-constrained and appropriately-normed (SCAN) semilocal density functionals. This advancement paves the way for further development within the realm of semilocal approximations.


---
# Temporal Bell inequalities in non-relativistic many-body physics

## 非相对论多体物理中的时间贝尔不等式

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.17290

arXiv:2409.17290v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Analyzing the spreading of information in many-body systems is crucial to understanding their quantum dynamics. At the most fundamental level, this task is accomplished by Bell inequalities, whose violation by quantum mechanics implies that information cannot always be stored locally. While Bell-like inequalities, such as the one of Clauser and Horne, envisage a situation in which two parties perform measurements on systems at different positions, one could formulate temporal inequalities, in which the two parties measure at different times. However, for causally-connected parties, these extensions are compatible with local hidden-variable theories, so that no intrinsically-quantum information spreading occurs in such temporal correlations. Here we show that a temporal Clauser-Horne inequality for two spins is violated for a nonzero time interval between the measurements if the two measured parties are connected by a spin chain. The chain constitutes a medium for the spreading of quantum information, which prevents the immediate signaling and thus the deterministic time evolution after the first measurement. Our result suggests that, as expected in a many-body setup, the Lieb-Robinson bound substitutes the speed of light as the fundamental limit for the spreading of information.


---
# Simulating Nonadiabatic Dynamics in Benzophenone: Tracing Internal Conversion Through Photoelectron Spectra

## 模拟二苯甲酮中的非绝热动力学: 通过光电子能谱追踪内部转换

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14134

arXiv:2411.14134v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Benzophenone serves as a prototype chromophore for studying the photochemistry of aromatic ketones, with applications ranging from biochemistry to organic light-emitting diodes. In particular, its intersystem crossing from the first singlet excited state to triplet states has been extensively studied, but experimental or theoretical studies on the preceding internal conversion within the singlet manifold are very rare. This relaxation mechanism is particularly important because direct population transfer of the first singlet excited state from the ground state is inefficient due to its low oscillator strength. In this work, we aim to fill this gap by employing mixed quantum classical and full quantum dynamics simulations and time-resolved photoelectron spectroscopy for gas-phase benzophenone and meta-methyl benzophenone. Our results show that nonadiabatic relaxation via conical intersections leads to a linear increase in the population of the first singlet excited state. This population transfer due to conical intersections can be directly detected by a bifurcation of the photoelectron signal. In addition, we are able to clarify the role of the third singlet excited state degenerate to the second excited state - a topic that remains largely unexplored in the existing literature on benzophenone.


---
# Octahedral tilt-driven phase transitions in BaZrS3 chalcogenide perovskite

## BaZrS3硫属元素化物钙钛矿中的八面体倾斜驱动相变

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14289

arXiv:2411.14289v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Chalcogenide perovskites are lead-free materials for potential photovoltaic or thermoelectric applications. BaZrS$_3$ is the most studied member of this family due to its superior thermal and chemical stability, desirable optoelectronic properties, and low thermal conductivity. Phase transitions of the BaZrS$_3$ perovskite are under-explored in literature as most experimental characterization is performed at ambient conditions where the orthorhombic Pnma phase is reported to be stable. In this work, we study the dynamics of BaZrS$_3$ across a range of temperatures and pressures using an accurate machine-learned interatomic potential trained with data from hybrid density functional theory calculations. At 0Pa, we find a first-order phase transition from the orthorhombic to tetragonal I4/mcm phase at 610K, and a second-order transition from the tetragonal to the cubic Pm-3m phase at 880K. The tetragonal phase is stable over a larger temperature range at higher pressures. To confirm the validity of our model we report the static structure factor as a function of temperature and compare our results with published experimental data.


---
# How Semilocal Are Semilocal Density Functional Approximations? -Tackling Self-Interaction Error in One-Electron Systems

## 半位置密度泛函近似有多半位置？-解决单电子系统中的自相互作用误差

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.08887

arXiv:2410.08887v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Self-interaction error (SIE), arising from the imperfect cancellation of the spurious classical Coulomb interaction between an electron and itself, is a persistent challenge in modern density functional approximations. This issue is illustrated using the prototypical one-electron system $H_2^+$. While significant efforts have been made to eliminate SIE through the development of computationally expensive nonlocal density functionals, it is equally important to explore whether SIE can be mitigated within the framework of more efficient semilocal density functionals. In this study, we present a non-empirical meta-generalized gradient approximation (meta-GGA) that incorporates the Laplacian of the electron density. Our results demonstrate that the meta-GGA significantly reduces SIE, yielding a binding energy curve for $H_2^+$ that matches the exact solution at equilibrium and improves across a broad range of bond lengths over those of the Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof (PBE) and strongly-constrained and appropriately-normed (SCAN) semilocal density functionals. This advancement paves the way for further development within the realm of semilocal approximations.


---
# Competitive Strain Modulation of Oxygen Reduction Reaction in Monolayer Binary Alloy Surfaces

## 单层二元合金表面氧还原反应的竞争应变调制

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-j9g93-v3?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Binary alloys of transition metals show great promise as catalyst materials for the cathodic oxygen-reduction reaction (ORR) in polymer-electrolyte-membrane fuel cells.  However, their catalytic application is limited by a lack of understanding of the factors influencing the ORR performance. To improve this understanding, we examine the activity of monolayer AuxPt1-x surface alloys supported on Pt(111) using density functional theory. We found that the catalytic activity of AuxPt1-x/Pt(111) alloys varies significantly with the surface atomic arrangements, where phase-segregated surfaces show higher activity than those with random atomic arrangements. A key factor is a competitive strain influencing the Pt adsorption site activity. Distant Au atoms induce a long-range compressive strain that enhances Pt site activity, while adjacent Au atoms generate tensile strain that slightly reduces the Pt site activity. These findings suggest that surface alloys of elements with dissimilar lattice constants can generate competitive strain effects that modulate the activity of different adsorption sites. Our findings underscore the importance of understanding and controlling atomic arrangements in alloys to ensure good catalytic performance.


---
# Reactions of a prototypical phenolic antioxidant with radicals in polyethylene: insights from density functional theory

## 原型酚类抗氧化剂与聚乙烯自由基的反应: 密度泛函理论的见解

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-shvp5?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Phenolic antioxidants are widely used to prevent oxidation, which is the main degradation process for many polymers, in particular polyolefins among which polyethylene is the most employed one. Although it is generally understood that one of the main mechanisms by which phenolic antioxidants prevent or slow down oxidation is by deactivating radicals and preventing the formation of alkyl radicals, detailed understanding at the atomic scale of the hierarchy of radical reactions is still lacking. Here, we investigate the interaction of a prototypical phenolic antioxidant, butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), with radicals in a polyethylene model by means of static and dynamic simulations based on density functional theory. We focus on the H-transfer reactions between BHT and radical species by evaluating the associated energy barriers and analyses the conditions in which these relevant reactions occur by first principles molecular dynamics simulation. Our polyethylene model includes a realistic surface of a crystalline lamella, thus describing the local atomic environment in which the reactions mainly take place. Our results suggest that the H-transfer reaction of the BHT molecule with an alkoxy radical is spontaneous and the energy barrier is small (~0.1 eV) with a peroxy radical. Conversely, direct scavenging of alkyl radicals by BHT seems excluded. Our molecular dynamics simulations highlight the influence of steric hindrance and antioxidant diffusion within amorphous regions on antioxidant efficiency.


---
# Revealing Water Structure at Neutral and Charged Graphene/Water Interfaces through Quantum Simulations of Sum Frequency Generation Spectra

## 通过和频产生光谱的量子模拟揭示中性和带电石墨烯/水界面的水结构

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-25th6?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

The structure and dynamics of water at charged graphene interfaces fundamentally influence molecular responses to electric fields, with implications for applications in energy storage, catalysis, and surface chemistry. Leveraging the realism of the MB-pol data-driven many-body potential and advanced path-integral quantum dynamics, we analyze the vibrational sum-frequency generation (vSFG) spectrum of graphene/water interfaces under varying surface charges. Our quantum simulations reveal a distinctive dangling OH peak in the vSFG spectrum at neutral graphene, consistent with recent experimental findings yet markedly different from earlier studies. As the graphene surface becomes positively charged, interfacial water molecules reorient, decreasing the intensity of the dangling OH peak as the OH groups turn away from the graphene. In contrast, water molecules orient their OH bonds toward negatively charged graphene, leading to a prominent dangling OH peak in the corresponding vSFG spectrum. This charge-induced reorganization generates a diverse range of hydrogen-bonding topologies at the interface, driven by variations in the underlying electrostatic interactions. Re- markably, these structural changes extend into deeper water layers, creating an unequal distribution of molecules with OH bonds pointing toward and away from the graphene sheet. This imbalance amplifies bulk spectral features, underscoring the complexity of many-body interactions that shape the molecular structure of water at charged graphene interfaces.


---
# DFT Insights into Substituent Effects on Trithiocarbonate Linkages: Electronic Structure, Stability and Reactivity

## DFT对取代基对三硫代碳酸酯键的影响的见解: 电子结构，稳定性和反应性

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5389568/latest

This study provides a comprehensive theoretical investigation of trithiocarbonate (TTC) linkages, significant in polymerization processes, pharmacological therapies, and biologically active compounds. The focus is on the impact of various substituents on electronic structure, stability, and reactivity using Density Functional Theory (DFT). Key electronic parameters such as HOMO, LUMO, and energy gap were analyzed to evaluate molecular stability and potential reactivity. Compound characterization was performed using UV-visible absorption and IR spectroscopy. Molecular electrostatic potential (MEP) analysis identified nucleophilic and electrophilic regions, while the density of states (DOS) provided additional insights into electronic distribution. Global reactivity descriptors, including chemical potential (&micro;), chemical softness (s), chemical hardness (ⴄ), and electrophilicity index (ꞷ), were used to assess the stability and reactivity. The electrophilic index of TTC1&ndash;TTC11 ranged from 1.5 eV to 4.0 eV, indicating high reactivity, while TTC12, TTC13, and TTC14 were classified as super-electrophilic. MEP analysis highlighted reactive sites, such as the sulfur atom in TTC11 and the C-H bond in TTC13. High bond dissociation energies (BDE) and Gibbs free energies for TTC11, TTC13, and TTC14 suggest strong linkages with their substituents when directly attached to ring-structured substituents without alkyl spacer. In contrast, TTC8, TTC9, TTC10, and TTC12 exhibit weaker linkages when linked with alkyl spacer. These findings offer valuable insights for designing TTC compounds with tailored properties.

