# Fermi surface reconstruction in strained La$_3$Ni$_2$O$_{7}$ on LaAlO$_3$(001) and SrTiO$_3$(001)

## LaAlO $_3 $(001) 和SrTiO $_3 $(001) 上应变La $_3 $ Ni $_2 $ O $_{7}$ 中的费米曲面重构

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14600

arXiv:2411.14600v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We explore the structural and electronic properties of the bilayer nickelate La3Ni2O7 on LaAlO3(001) and SrTiO3(001) by using density functional theory including a Coulomb repulsion term. For La$_3$Ni$_2$O$_{7}$/LaAlO$_3$(001), we find that compressive strain and electron doping across the interface result in the unconventional occupation of the antibonding Ni $3d_{z^2}$ states. In sharp contrast, no charge transfer is observed for La$_3$Ni$_2$O$_{7}$/SrTiO$_3$(001). Surprisingly, tensile strain drives a metallization of the bonding Ni $3d_{z^2}$ states, rendering a Fermi surface topology resembling the superconducting bulk La$_3$Ni$_2$O$_{7}$ under high pressure. Concomitantly, significant octahedral rotations are retained. We discuss the fundamental differences between hydrostatic pressure and epitaxial strain regarding the crystal geometry and Ni $3d$ orbital occupation, and establish that strain provides a much stronger control over the Ni $e_g$ orbital polarization. The results suggest epitaxial La$_3$Ni$_2$O$_{7}$ under tensile strain as interesting system to provide novel insights into the physics of bilayer nickelates and possibly induce superconductivity without external pressure.


---
# Quantum dynamics of photophysical aggregates in conjugated polymers

## 共轭聚合物中光物理聚集体的量子动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14675

arXiv:2411.14675v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Photophysical aggregates are ubiquitous in many solid-state microstructures adopted by conjugated polymers, in which $\pi$ electrons interact with those in other polymer chains or those in other chromophores along the chain. These interactions fundamentally define the electronic and optical properties of the polymer film. While valuable insight can be gained from linear excitation and photoluminescence spectra, nonlinear coherent excitation spectral lineshapes provide intricate understanding on the electronic couplings that define the aggregate and their fluctuations. Here, we discuss the coherent two-dimensional excitation lineshape of a model hairy-rod conjugated polymer. At zero population waiting time, we find a $\pi/2$ phase shift between the 0-0 and 0-1 vibronic peaks in the real and imaginary components of the complex coherent spectrum, as well as a dynamic phase rotation with population waiting time over timescales that are longer than the optical dephasing time. We conjecture that these are markers of relaxation of the photophysical aggregate down the tight manifold of the exciton band. These results highlight the potential for coherent spectroscopy via analysis of the complex spectral lineshape to become a key tool to develop structure-property relationships in complex functional materials.


---
# Unveiling the structural, chemical state, and optical band-gap evolution of Ta-doped epitaxial SrTiO3 thin films using first-principles calculations and spectroscopic ellipsometry

## 使用第一性原理计算和光谱椭偏仪揭示了掺Ta的外延SrTiO3薄膜的结构，化学状态和光学带隙的演变

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.15023

arXiv:2411.15023v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: In this report, the optical properties of Ta doped SrTiO3 (STO) due to its potential in transparent conducting oxides (TCOs) is explored by a combination of theoretical studies based on density functional theory and spectroscopic ellipsometry. To achieve this theoretically, we vary the concentration of Ta from 0 - 12.5% in SrTi1-xTaxO3 system by substitutional doping and report its effect on the resulting structural, chemical, electronic, chemical, and optical properties. Additionally, we perform band unfolding to shed light on the true nature of optical transitions due to Ta doping. We verify these results experimentally by fabricating epitaxial SrTi1-xTaxO3 thin films ( x = 0 - 5%) by pulsed laser deposition and obtain the optical dielectric properties of the system with the help of spectroscopic ellipsometry. By combining theoretical and experimental studies, we provide evidence that the band gap of STO increases due to Ta doping while also enhancing its electronic properties. The findings of our study offer an extensive understanding of the intricacies associated with elemental doping in perovskite oxides and propose strategies for addressing obstacles associated with TCOs.


---
# A Rigorous Theory of Quantum-Classical Systems at Finite Temperature, Part I: Exact Functional Formulation in the Canonical Ensemble

## 有限温度下量子经典系统的严格理论，第一部分: 规范系综中的精确功能公式

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.11821

arXiv:2411.11821v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Combining classical density functional theory (cDFT) with quantum mechanics (QM) methods offers a computationally efficient alternative to traditional QM/molecular mechanics (MM) approaches for modeling mixed quantum-classical systems at finite temperatures. However, both QM/MM and QM/cDFT rely on approximations that introduce ambiguities. This series of papers aims to establish a rigorous theoretical framework to guide the development of a QM/cDFT formulation that clarifies the approximations involved. In this first paper, we establish a comprehensive density functional theory (DFT) framework for mixed quantum (QM)-classical (MM) systems within the canonical ensemble. We derive the equilibrium density matrix for a system comprising N qm QM and N mm MM particles and, based on this derivation, propose a variational formulation of the Helmholtz free energy in terms of the full QM-MM density matrix. By leveraging permutational symmetry and thanks to constrained-search methods, we reformulate the variational problem using functionals of objects having reduced dimensionalities. Three different formulations are presented, each using quantities with progressively lower dimensionalities. This ultimately enables computation of the Helmholtz free energy using only the QM and MM one-body densities, generalizing both cDFT and electronic DFT (eDFT) for QM-MM systems. In a subsequent paper, this formalism will be extended to the grand canonical ensemble, allowing classical particle number fluctuations. This extension, in which cDFT is most naturally formulated, provides a framework for studying solvation problems.


---
# Accurate and efficient localized basis sets for two-dimensional materials

## 二维材料的准确高效的本地化基础集

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.12566

arXiv:2411.12566v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: First-principles density functional theory (DFT) codes which employ a localized basis offer advantages over those which use plane-wave bases, such as better scaling with system size and better suitability to low-dimensional systems. The trade-off is that care must be taken in order to generate a good localized basis set which is efficient and accurate in a variety of environments. Here we develop and make freely available optimized local basis sets for two common two-dimensional (2D) materials, graphene and hexagonal boron nitride, for the \siesta DFT code. Each basis set is benchmarked against the \abinit plane-wave code, using the same pseudopotentials and exchange-correlation functionals. We find that a significant improvement is obtained by including the $l+2$ polarization orbitals ($4f$) to the basis set, which greatly improves angular flexibility. The optimized basis sets yield much better agreement with plane-wave calculations for key features of the physical system, including total energy, lattice constant and cohesive energy. The optimized basis sets also result in a speedup of the calculations with respect to the non-optimized, native choices.


---
# Resolving phonon-mediated superconducting pairing symmetries from first-principles calculation

## 通过第一性原理计算解决声子介导的超导配对对称性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.12991

arXiv:2411.12991v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: The quest for topological superconductors triggers revived interests in resolving non-s-wave pairing channels mediated by phonons. While density functional theory and denstify functional perturbtaion theory have established a powerful framework to calculate electron-phonon couplings in real materials in a first-principles way, its application is largely limited to conventional s-wave superconductivity. Here, we formulate an efficient and simple-to-use algorithm for first-principles pairing channel analysis, and apply it to several representative material systems.


---
# Quantum dynamics of photophysical aggregates in conjugated polymers

## 共轭聚合物中光物理聚集体的量子动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14675

arXiv:2411.14675v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Photophysical aggregates are ubiquitous in many solid-state microstructures adopted by conjugated polymers, in which $\pi$ electrons interact with those in other polymer chains or those in other chromophores along the chain. These interactions fundamentally define the electronic and optical properties of the polymer film. While valuable insight can be gained from linear excitation and photoluminescence spectra, nonlinear coherent excitation spectral lineshapes provide intricate understanding on the electronic couplings that define the aggregate and their fluctuations. Here, we discuss the coherent two-dimensional excitation lineshape of a model hairy-rod conjugated polymer. At zero population waiting time, we find a $\pi/2$ phase shift between the 0-0 and 0-1 vibronic peaks in the real and imaginary components of the complex coherent spectrum, as well as a dynamic phase rotation with population waiting time over timescales that are longer than the optical dephasing time. We conjecture that these are markers of relaxation of the photophysical aggregate down the tight manifold of the exciton band. These results highlight the potential for coherent spectroscopy via analysis of the complex spectral lineshape to become a key tool to develop structure-property relationships in complex functional materials.


---
# Chemical substitution and band gap tunability in chiral Ag3Au(Se,Te)2 solid solutions

## 手性Ag3Au(Se，Te)2固溶体中的化学取代和带隙可调性

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-9v9nt?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Ag3AuSe2 and Ag3AuTe2 were previously predicted to be narrow direct gap semiconductors with the same chiral structure type. Recent computational studies using Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof (PBE) functional highlighted their potential band gap tunability via strain application. For example, Ag3AuSe2 was predicted to exhibit full band closure above 4% tensile strain. In this study, we explored chemical substitution to examine the density functional theory (DFT) predictions, by replacing Se2− with larger Te2− anions. We synthesized and characterized the electronic and optical properties of Ag3Au[Se(1−x)Te(x)]2 solid solutions for x from 0 to 1. Our findings revealed that the lattice constants increase linearly with Te incorporation, reaching 3.6% expansion at 90% Se2− to Te2− substitution. The activation energy and optical band gap of Ag3Au(Se,Te)2 were determined using electrical resistivity and ultraviolet–visible (UV-Vis) diffuse reflectance measurements. The band gap decreased with increasing Te content, although hybrid functionals are necessary to correctly predict the gap. Further computational studies on the band structures of Ag3Au(Se,Te)2 alloys would shed light on the impact of lattice parameter modification via chemical substitution on band gap tunability.


---
# Exploring Atom-Pairwise and Many-Body Dispersion Corrections for the BEEF-vdW Functional

## 探索牛肉-vdW功能的原子对和多体色散校正

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-2hg7l?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

The Bayesian error estimation functional (BEEF-vdW) is widely used in surface science and catalysis, because it provides a balanced description of molecular, surface and solid state systems, along with reliable error estimates. However, the nonlocal van-der-Waals density functional (vdW-DF2) employed in BEEF-vdW {can be computationally costly and displays relatively low accuracy for molecular systems.} Therefore, this work explores whether atom-pairwise and many-body dispersion treatments represent viable alternatives to using the vdW-DF2 functional with BEEF-vdW. To this end, we investigate the performance of commonly used atom-pairwise corrections (\emph{i.e.} the Tkatchenko-Scheffler, TS, and the exchange-hole dipole moment, XDM, approaches) and many-body dispersion (MBD) treatments for molecular, surface and solid-state systems. The results indicate that atom pairwise methods such as TS and particularly XDM provide a good balance of cost and accuracy across all systems.


---
# Engineering Photoswitching Dynamics in 3D Photochromic Metal-Organic Frameworks through Metal-Organic Polyhedron Design

## 通过金属有机多面体设计在3D光致变色金属有机框架中的工程光开关动力学

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-bdnhr?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Metal-organic polyhedra (MOPs) are versatile supramolecular building blocks for the design of highly porous frame-works by reticular assembly because of their diverse geometries, multiple degrees of freedom regarding functionaliza-tion, and accessible metal sites. Lipophilic functionalization is demonstrated to enable the rational assembly and crystal-lization with photoactive N-donor ligands in an aliphatic solvent to achieve multiaxially aligned photoresponsive dia-rylethene (DTE) moieties in 3D frameworks (DUT-210(M), M= Cu, Rh) featuring cooperative switchability. Combined experimental and theoretical investigations based on in situ-PXRD, UV/Vis spectroscopy and density functional theory calculations demonstrate deliberate kinetic engineering of photoswitchability based on variations in metal-linker bond strengths. The novel porous frameworks are an important step towards the knowledge-based development of photon driven motors, actuators and release systems.


---
# A DFT analysis for synthesizing vitamin A

## 合成维生素a的DFT分析

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-g0drf-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Vitamin A deficiency (VAD) is a major nutritional concern in lower-income countries. It is responsible for thousands of deaths in those countries every year. Thus, finding the optimal route for vitamin A synthesis is essential, especially for the countries that are influenced by VAD. Three mechanisms of synthesizing Vitamin A have been evaluated by Density Functional Theory (DFT) calculations. This experiment investigated the BASF C15 + C5 Wittig approach, the Rhône-Poulenc C15 + C5 Julia approach, and the Kuraray C10 + C10 approach. The electronic energy, highest occupied molecular orbital energy, and dipole moments were calculated using the B3LYP functional and the 3-21g basis set. The energy profiles of these synthesis routes were compared to determine the most energetically favorable method. The Julia approach has the lowest energy change, indicating its higher efficiency in terms of energy compared to the Wittig and Kuraray methods. It is shown that other factors such as scalability and raw material availability should also be considered in industrial applications.


---
# Density Functional Theoretical method for modelling Cobalt-doped g-C3N4 sensor for detecting aniline - a cancer biomarker

## 用于检测癌症生物标志物苯胺的钴掺杂g-C3N4传感器的密度泛函理论方法

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-pctwk?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Using DFT calculations, we investigated the sensitivity of the lung cancer biomarkers, such as acetone, ethanol, and aniline - on pristine and Cobalt (Co)-doped g-C3N4 systems. The adsorption energy calculations reveal that these biomarkers undergo chemisorption on pristine g-C3N4, resulting in long recovery times, which restricts the suitability of pristine g-C3N4 as a sensor. Alternatively, the band gap of Co-g-C3N4 (0.98 eV) is lower than that of pristine g-C3N4 (1.33 eV), which increases the conductivity of Co-g-C3N4 (5.11 × 10⁻⁹ S/m) compared to pristine g-C3N4 (5.714 × 10⁻¹² S/m) - suggesting obvious selective sensitivity towards the biomarkers. Our results indicate that acetone adsorbs on the Co-g-C3N4 surface via chemisorption process, aniline undergoes physisorption, and ethanol exhibits an intermediate adsorption behaviour. Recovery time analysis revealed that aniline (0.09 s) and ethanol (3.64 s) can be recovered quickly at 398 K, which further accelerates under UV irradiation at 298 K. However, the conductivity calculations revealed that aniline exhibits the highest conductivity of 1.72 × 10-7 and the work function calculations manifested stronger sensitivity of Co-g-C3N4 towards aniline compared to acetone and ethanol. These results predict, Co-g-C3N4 as a superior sensor for aniline biomarker due to its physisorption behaviour, lower recovery time, higher conductivity and significant change in work function. The state-of-the-art analysis of Co-g-C3N4 as a promising reusable sensor for detecting aniline in exhaled breath is hitherto unknow to date.


---
# Introducing Metal-Sulfur Active Sites in Metal-Organic Frameworks via Post-Synthetic Modification for Hydrogenation Catalysis

## 通过后合成修饰在金属有机框架中引入金属-硫活性位点用于加氢催化

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5357011/latest

Metal sulfide binary compounds, renowned for their exceptional electronic properties, are advantageous in applications such as hydrogenation, dehydrogenation, and photocatalysis. Typically, the majority of active sites in these compounds reside on the surfaces and edges of catalyst particles, leaving the bulk catalyst underutilized. This study introduces a strategy to embed metal-sulfur active sites into metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) via post-synthetic modification, exploiting the MOFs&amp;rsquo; accessible internal surfaces. Two MOF systems, including M2Cl2(BBTA) (H2BBTA&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;1H,5H-benzo(1,2-d:4,5-d')bistriazole, M&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;Co, Ni), which features one-dimensional M&amp;ndash;Cl chains and hexagonal channels, and M-MFU-4l-Cl (M&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;Co, Ni), which contains discrete ZnM4 metal nodes, were selected as starting materials. The conversion processes, from M2Cl2(BBTA) to M2(SH)2(BBTA) and from M-MFU-4l-Cl to M-MFU-4l-SH, were executed through a two-step post-synthetic modification protocol and confirmed by single-crystal XRD, PXRD, PDF, SEM, XPS, and N2 sorption techniques. Catalytic performance was assessed using the reduction of 4-nitrophenol to 4-aminophenol with molecular hydrogen as a model reaction, and significant improvement in performance was observed upon introduction of the SH groups. Density functional theory calculations suggest that the flexibility of the sulfur moiety is crucial in the M&amp;ndash;X bond cleavage pathway, enhancing hydrogen activation. This study underscores the efficacy of post-synthetic modification in developing advanced MOF-based catalysts with superior performance for selective hydrogenation reactions, highlighting the strategic advantage of incorporating polarizable sulfur components within MOFs.

