# Topological nodal line features in NiSe semimetal: Insights from electronic transport and density functional theory studies

## NiSe半金属中的拓扑节点线特征: 来自电子传输和密度泛函理论研究的见解

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.110.195153

Author(s): Sharadnarayan Pradhan, Sanand Kumar Pradhan, Priyanath Mal, P. Rambabu, Archana Lakhani, Bipul Das, Bheema Lingam Chittari, G. R. Turpu, and Pradip Das<br /><p>The linear band touchings at one-dimensional lines or rings that characterize a nodal line semimetal phase have created much interest in research as they may find use in the next generation of low-dissipation electronics and spintronics. Here we demonstrated the presence of multiple scattering proce…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 110, 195153] Published Wed Nov 27, 2024


---
# Manipulating the Optical Response of TaIrTe4 Heterostructures through Band Alignment Strategy

## 通过能带对准策略操纵TaIrTe4异质结构的光学响应

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.15517

arXiv:2411.15517v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Weyl semimetals, such as $TaIrTe_{4}$, characterized by their unique band structures and exotic transport phenomena, have become a central focus in modern electronics. Despite extensive research, a systematic understanding of the impact of heterogeneous integration on the electronic and optical properties of TaIrTe4 device remains elusive. We have carried out density functional theory combined with nonequilibrium Green's function formalism calculations for $TaIrTe_{4}/WTe_{2}$, $TaIrTe_{4}/MoTe_{2}$ and $TaIrTe_{4}/h-BN$ heterostructures, aiming to understand the manipulation of photoresponse through various band alignment strategies. The underlying impacts of interlayer interactions, charge transfer and build-in electric field on the electronic properties are carefully investigated. We design a dual-probe photodetector device to understand the overall photoresponse enhancement of the heterogeneous integration by decomposing into the specific strain, interlayer transition, band overlap and symmetry lowering mechanics. These van der Waals integrations provide an ideal platform for studying band alignment physics in self-powered optoelectronic devices.


---
# Giant Electron-Phonon Coupling Induced Band-Gap Renormalization in Anharmonic Silver Chalcohalide Antiperovskites

## 非谐银硫属卤化物反钙钛矿中的巨大电子-声子耦合引起的带隙重整化

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.16279

arXiv:2411.16279v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Silver chalcohalide antiperovskites (CAP), Ag$_{3}$XY (X = S, Se; Y = Br, I), are a family of highly anharmonic inorganic compounds with great potential for energy applications. However, a substantial and unresolved discrepancy exists between the optoelectronic properties predicted by theoretical first-principles methods and those measured experimentally at room temperature, hindering the fundamental understanding and rational engineering of CAP. In this work, we employ density functional theory, tight-binding calculations, and anharmonic Fr\"ohlich theory to investigate the optoelectronic properties of CAP at finite temperatures. Near room temperature, we observe a giant band-gap ($E_{g}$) reduction of approximately $20$-$60$\% relative to the value calculated at $T = 0$ K, bringing the estimated $E_{g}$ into excellent agreement with experimental measurements. This relative $T$-induced band-gap renormalization is roughly twice the largest value previously reported in the literature for similar temperature ranges. Low-energy optical polar phonon modes, which break inversion symmetry and promote the overlap between silver and chalcogen $s$ electronic orbitals in the conduction band, are identified as the primary contributors to this giant $E_{g}$ reduction. Furthermore, when considering temperature effects, the optical absorption coefficient of CAP increases by nearly an order of magnitude for visible light frequencies. These insights not only bridge a crucial gap between theory and experiment but also open pathways for future technologies where temperature, electric fields, or light dynamically tailor optoelectronic behavior, positioning CAP as a versatile platform for next-generation energy applications.


---
# Advancing Electrochemical CO$_2$ Capture with Redox-Active Metal-Organic Frameworks

## 用氧化还原活性金属有机框架推进电化学CO $_2 $ 捕获

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.16444

arXiv:2411.16444v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Addressing climate change calls for action to control CO$_2$ pollution. Direct air and ocean capture offer a solution to this challenge. Making carbon capture competitive with alternatives, such as forestation and mineralisation, requires fundamentally novel approaches and ideas. One such approach is electrosorption, which is currently limited by the availability of suitable electrosorbents. In this work, we introduce a metal-organic copper-2,3,6,7,10,11-hexahydroxytriphenylene (Cu$_3$(HHTP)$_2$) metal-organic framework (MOF) that can act as electrosorbent for CO$_2$ capture, thereby expanding the palette of materials that can be used for this process. Cu$_3$(HHTP)$_2$ is the first MOF to switch its ability to capture and release CO$_2$ in aqueous electrolytes. By using cyclic voltammetry (CV) and differential electrochemical mass spectrometry (DEMS), we demonstrate reversible CO$_2$ electrosorption. Based on density functional theory (DFT) calculations, we provide atomistic insights into the mechanism of electrosorption and conclude that efficient CO$_2$ capture is facilitated by a combination of redox-active copper and aromatic HHTP ligand within Cu3(HHTP)2. By showcasing the applicability of Cu$_3$(HHTP)$_2$ -- with a CO$_2$ capacity of 2 mmol g$^{-1}$ and an adsorption enthalpy of -20 kJ mol$^{-1}$ - this study encourages further exploration of conductive redox-active MOFs in the search for superior CO$_2$ electrosorbents.


---
# Critical Role of Disorder for Superconductivity in the Series of Epitaxial Ti(O,N) Films

## 无序在一系列外延Ti(O，N) 薄膜中超导的关键作用

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.03170

arXiv:2310.03170v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Realizing experimental control of superconductivity is of paramount importance to advancing both basic research and technological applications. Disorder, generally existing in most superconductors, intricately interacts with Cooper pairs and also impacts the performance of quantum devices. In this paper, we report the study of a series of Ti(O,N) crystalline films prepared via molecular beam epitaxy (MBE). We discover that substituting nitrogen (N) for oxygen (O) in TiO, namely TiO(N), considerably increases the normal-state conductivity and the superconducting transition temperature Tc. The Tc of TiO(N) falling between those of TiO (about 0.5 K) and TiN (about 6 K) is contrary to their comparable Tc predicted by the Migdal Eliasberg theory. It is found that their resistivity vs temperature obeys the Mooij rule, known as the characteristic of metallic glasses. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations demonstrate that strong disorder severely scatters the Bloch electron waves at nonzero momenta, which consequently weakens electron-phonon coupling in TiO(N).


---
# Stochastic Sampling of Operator Growth Dynamics

## 算子增长动力学的随机抽样

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.06215

arXiv:2401.06215v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We put forward a Monte Carlo algorithm that samples the Euclidean time operator growth dynamics at infinite temperature. Crucially, our approach is free from the numerical sign problem for a broad family of quantum many-body spin systems, allowing for numerically exact and unbiased calculations. We apply this methodological headway to study the high-frequency dynamics of the mixed-field quantum Ising model (QIM) in one and two dimensions. The resulting quantum dynamics display rapid thermalization, supporting the recently proposed operator growth hypothesis. Physically, our findings correspond to an exponential fall-off of generic response functions of local correlators at large frequencies. Remarkably, our calculations are sufficiently sensitive to detect subtle logarithmic corrections of the hypothesis in one dimension. In addition, in two dimensions, we uncover a non-trivial dynamical crossover between two large frequency decay rates. Lastly, we reveal spatio-temporal scaling laws associated with operator growth, which are found to be strongly affected by boundary contributions.


---
# Attosecond Diffraction Imaging of Electron Dynamics in Solids

## 固体中电子动力学的阿秒衍射成像

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.03537

arXiv:2407.03537v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Visualizing the electron dynamics in four dimensions of space and time is crucial to the understanding of several ubiquitous processes in nature. Hence, ultrafast X-ray and electron imaging tools have been developed to probe the dynamics of matter by means of the time-resolved diffraction imaging (TRDI). In this work, we report an extension of the theory underlying the TRDI to the case of the laser-driven electron dynamics in solid state systems. We demonstrate that the TRDI signal encodes essential information about the time-dependent electron density of the system under study and thus makes it possible to decipher the ultrafast quantum dynamics and the electron transfer phenomena in solids. We apply the developed approach to image the laser-driven electron dynamics in neutral graphene showing that the predictions made by the fully quantum version of the TRDI deviate significantly from those obtained with the conventional semiclassical approach.


---
# Exploring functionalized Zr$_2$N and Sc$_2$N MXenes as superconducting candidates with $\textit{ab initio}$ calculations

## 用 $ \ textit {从头算} $ 计算探索功能化Z r$ _2 $ N和Sc $_2 $ N MXenes作为超导候选者

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.12052

arXiv:2409.12052v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We explore the possibility of obtaining new superconductor candidates from functionalized MXene compounds Zr$_2$NS$_2$, Zr$_2$NCl$_2$, and Sc$_2$NCl$_2$ based on $\textit{ab initio}$ calculations with density functional theory for superconductors (SCDFT). The predicted superconducting transition temperature $T_c$ at ambient pressure may reach up to 9.48 K (Zr$_2$NS$_2$). Strain-induced $T_c$ enhancement is demonstrated with an example case for Zr$_2$NCl$_2$. We note a correlation between the profiles of superconducting gap $\Delta$ and the electron-phonon coupling $\lambda$ across the Fermi surface for all compounds, which are likely influenced by their modified electronic bandstructure components.


---
# Nonequilibrium relaxation exponentially delays the onset of quantum diffusion

## 非平衡弛豫指数延迟量子扩散的开始

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17021

arXiv:2411.17021v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Predicting the exact many-body quantum dynamics of polarons in materials with strong carrier-phonon interactions presents a fundamental challenge, often necessitating one to adopt approximations that sacrifice the ability to predict the transition from nonequilibrium relaxation to thermodynamic equilibrium. Here, we exploit a recent breakthrough that generalizes the concept of memory beyond its conventional temporal meaning to also encompass space. Specifically, we leverage our discovery that the dynamics of observables in systems with local couplings satisfy Green's functions with kernels that are local in time and space. This enables us to employ the dynamics of small lattices over short times to predict the dynamics of thermodynamically large lattices over arbitrarily long timescales while circumventing the deleterious impacts of finite-size effects. We thus interrogate the \textit{exact} nonequilibrium formation and migration of polarons in one- (1D) and two-dimensional (2D) systems, revealing that their motion approaches diffusive transport only asymptotically in time and system size. We also compare transport in 1D and 2D systems to investigate the effect of dimension in polaron migration physics, illustrating how energy variations can cause localization -- a phenomenon observable via current microscopy experiments.


---
# Adsorption of molecular hydrogen on honeycomb ZnO monolayers: A quantum density-functional theory perspective

## 分子氢在蜂窝状ZnO单层上的吸附: 量子密度泛函理论的观点

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17258

arXiv:2411.17258v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We investigate the adsorption of molecular hydrogen on pristine zinc oxide (ZnO) platelets. The volumetric and gravimetric hydrogen storage capacities of the ZnO monolayers are evaluated in a broad range of thermodynamic conditions (i.e., for temperatures in the range 77 K < T < 450 K, and for external gas pressures up to 200 bar). The thermodynamic properties and the microscopic spatial distribution of the adsorbed hydrogen fluid are assessed within the density functional theory of liquids for quantum fluids at finite temperature (QLDFT), and the adsorption enthalphies are obtained by fitting the computed adsorption densities to the Toth model isotherm. Compared to graphene platelets, the ZnO sheets impose a rather tighter confinement to the motion of the hydrogen molecules parallel to the surface. The isosteric heat of adsorption approaches 3.2 kJ/mol in the low density regime. This quantity shows a fairly smooth dependence on the hydrogen uptake for temperatures below 100 K, while it is shown to depend quite sensitively on the adsorbate density above this temperature.


---
# Photo-Induced Electron-Nuclear Dynamics of Fullerene and Its Monolayer Networks in Solvated Environments

## 溶剂化环境中富勒烯及其单层网络的光诱导电子核动力学

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-nhcl8?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

The recently-synthesized monolayer fullerene network in a quasi-hexagonal phase (qHP-C60) exhibits superior electron mobility and optoelectronic properties compared to molecular fullerene (C60), making it highly promising for a variety of applications. However, the microscopic carrier dynamics of qHP-C60 remain unclear, particularly in realistic environments, which are of significant importance for applications in optoelectronic devices. Unfortunately, traditional $ab~initio$ methods are prohibitive for capturing the real-time carrier dynamics of such large systems due to their high computational cost. In this work, we present the first real-time electron-nuclear dynamics study of qHP-C60 using velocity-gauge density functional tight binding, which enables us to perform several picoseconds of excited-state electron-nuclear dynamics simulations for nanoscale systems with periodic boundary conditions. When applied to C60, qHP-C60, and their solvated counterparts, we demonstrate that water/moisture significantly increases the electron-hole recombination time in C60 but has little impact on qHP-C60. Our excited-state electron-nuclear dynamics calculations show that qHP-C60 is extremely unique and enable an exploration of time-resolved dynamics for understanding excited-state processes of large systems in complex, solvated environments.


---
# Exploring the structural, elastic, electronic and thermal properties of Ti-Al-Me (Me=Cu, Fe and Ni) alloys by first-principles studies

## 通过第一性原理研究探索ti-al-me (Me = Cu，Fe和Ni) 合金的结构，弹性，电子和热性质

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5153046/latest

The structural, elastic, electronic, and thermal properties of Ti-Al-Me (Me=Cu, Fe and Ni) alloys (TAMs) with the face-centered cubic phase were investigated using plane-wave pseudo potential method which is implemented in CASTEP code in the framework of density functional theory. The stability of the structure was confirmed from energetic, mechanical and phonon dynamic perspectives. Based on the calculated elastic constants combined with empirical and semi-empirical formulas, physical properties including ductility/brittleness, hardness and anisotropy of each phase was calculated. Moreover, thermodynamic information such as entropy, enthalpy, free energy, heat capacity and heat transfer coefficient were calculated. The results showed that TiAlFe2 had the highest thermal conductivity coefficient, and the heat capacities of all phases gradually approached the Dulong-Petit limit at high temperatures, while they conformed to the Debye T3 temperature law at low temperatures. Furthermore, the electronic structure calculation results indicate that all compounds are metallic and the d orbital of each atom plays an important role in the hybridization process. These calculation results are of great practical importance for understanding the basic physical and chemical properties of TAMs, clarifying their application and making sensible material selection.

