# Optimized Trajectory Unraveling for Classical Simulation of Noisy Quantum Dynamics

## 经典模拟噪声量子动力学的优化轨迹解开

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevLett.133.230403

Author(s): Zhuo Chen, Yimu Bao, and Soonwon Choi<br /><p>The dynamics of open quantum systems can be simulated by unraveling it into an ensemble of pure state trajectories undergoing nonunitary monitored evolution, which has recently been shown to undergo measurement-induced entanglement phase transition. Here, we show that, for an arbitrary decoherence c…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. Lett. 133, 230403] Published Fri Dec 06, 2024


---
# How orbitals and oxidation states determine apparent topographies in scanning tunneling microscopy: The case of fluorine on silver surfaces

## 轨道和氧化态如何确定扫描隧道显微镜中的表观形貌: 银表面上氟的情况

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.110.235407

Author(s): Adrián Gómez Pueyo, Jazmín Aragón Sánchez, Ilya Degtev, Maria Eleonora Temperini, Daniel Jezierski, Conor Hogan, Antonio Caporale, Luciana Di Gaspare, Luca Persichetti, Monica De Seta, Wojciech Grochala, Paolo Barone, Luca Camilli, and José Lorenzana<br /><p>We use density functional theory calculations to characterize the early stages of fluorination of silver's (100) and (110) surfaces. In the Ag(100) surface, the hollow site is the most favorable for F adatoms. In the Ag(110) surface, three adsorption sites, namely hollow, long bridge, and short brid…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 110, 235407] Published Fri Dec 06, 2024


---
# Unveiling the origin of diffusion suppression of hydrogen isotopes at the {\alpha}-Al2O3(0001)/{\alpha}-Cr2O3(0001) interfaces

## 揭示氢同位素在 {\ alpha}-Al2O3(0001)/{\ alpha}-Cr2O3(0001) 界面扩散抑制的起源

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.03999

arXiv:2412.03999v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: It has been reported that the {\alpha}-Al2O3, a promising tritium permeation barrier material for a fusion reactor, can be grown at low temperatures on the {\alpha}-Cr2O3 template, and that {\alpha}-Al2O3/{\alpha}-Cr2O3 composite films have more efficiently suppress the hydrogen isotope permeation than the single {\alpha}-Al2O3 film. In this study, we investigated the diffusion properties of hydrogen isotopes at the {\alpha}-Al2O3(0001)/{\alpha}-Cr2O3(0001) interfaces using first-principles calculations based on density functional theory. In the {\alpha}-Al2O3 region near the interfaces, O-H covalent bonds, which are not observed in the bulk {\alpha}-Al2O3, are formed, and hydrogen isotopes become stable. Such chemical bonds induced by the interfaces are the origin of hydrogen isotope trapping and result in a larger diffusion barrier than in the {\alpha}-Al2O3 and the {\alpha}-Cr2O3. It was also found that the suppression of hydrogen isotope diffusion does not occur at the interface site but at sites adjacent to the interfaces. In addition, the interface enhances the oxygen vacancies, which may also suppress hydrogen isotope permeation.


---
# Two-dimensional \b{eta}-phase copper iodide: a promising candidate for low-temperature thermoelectric applications

## 二维 \ b{eta} 相碘化铜: 低温热电应用的有希望的候选者

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04035

arXiv:2412.04035v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Bismuth telluride-based materials is the only commercially viable room-temperature thermoelectric material, despite its limited tellurium and poor mechanical properties. The search for materials with a high figure of merit (zT > 1.00) near room temperature remains a major challenge. In this work, we systematically investigate the structural stability and the thermoelectric capabilities of monolayer \b{eta}-CuI and {\gamma}-CuI through the density functional theory (DFT) combined with Boltzmann transport theory. Based on the thermoelectric transport coefficients of monolayer \b{eta}-CuI and {\gamma}-CuI, we predict their zT values will vary with carrier concentration and increase with temperature. Comparing the zT values, monolayer \b{eta}-CuI demonstrates superior thermoelectric properties compared to {\gamma}-CuI. At room temperature, the optimal zT values of monolayer \b{eta}-CuI exceed 1.50, with particularly high values of 2.98 (p-type) and 4.10 (n-type) along the Zigzag direction, demonstrating significant anisotropy. These results suggest the great potential of the monolayer \b{eta}-CuI is promising candidate materials for low temperature thermoelectric applications.


---
# Exceptionally strong double-layer barriers generated by polyampholyte salt

## 聚两性电解质盐产生的异常坚固的双层屏障

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04228

arXiv:2412.04228v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Experiments using the Surface Force Apparatus (SFA) have found anomalously long-ranged interactions between charged surfaces in concentrated salt solutions. Ion clustering have been suggested as a possible origin of this behaviour. In this work, we demonstrate that if such stable clusters indeed form, they are able to induce remarkably strong free energy barriers, under conditions where a corresponding solution of simple salt provide negligible forces. Our cluster model is based on connected ions producing a polyampholyte salt, containing a symmetric mixture of monovalent cationic and anionic polyampholytes. Ion distributions and surface interactions are evaluated utilising statistical-mechanical (classical) polymer Density Functional Theory, cDFT. In the Supporting Information, we briefly investigate a range of different polymer architectures (connectivities), but in the main part of the work a polyampholyte ion is modelled as a linear chain with alternating charges, in which the ends carry an identical charge (hence, a monovalent net charge). These salts are able to generate repulsions, between similarly charged surfaces, of a remarkable strength - exceeding those from simple salts by orders of magnitude. The underlying mechanism for this is the formation of brush-like layers at the surfaces, i.e. the repulsion is strongly related to excluded volume effects, in a manner similar to the interaction between surfaces carrying grafted polymers. We believe our results are relevant not only to possible mechanisms underlying anomalously long-ranged underscreening in concentrated simple salt solutions, but also for the potential use of synthesised polyampholyte salt as extremely efficient stabilisers of colloidal dispersions.


---
# Kinetics of Quantum Reaction-Diffusion systems

## 量子反应-扩散系统的动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.20028

arXiv:2406.20028v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We discuss many-body fermionic and bosonic systems subject to dissipative particle losses in arbitrary spatial dimensions $d$, within the Keldysh path-integral formulation of the quantum master equation. This open quantum dynamics represents a generalisation of classical reaction-diffusion dynamics to the quantum realm. We first show how initial conditions can be introduced in the Keldysh path integral via boundary terms. We then study binary annihilation reactions $A+A\to\emptyset$, for which we derive a Boltzmann-like kinetic equation. The ensuing algebraic decay in time for the particle density depends on the particle statistics. In order to model possible experimental implementations with cold atoms, for fermions in $d=1$ we further discuss inhomogeneous cases involving the presence of a trapping potential. In this context, we quantify the irreversibility of the dynamics studying the time evolution of the system entropy for different quenches of the trapping potential. We find that the system entropy features algebraic decay for confining quenches, while it saturates in deconfined scenarios.


---
# DFT and Model Hamiltonian Study of Optoelectronic Properties of Some Low-Symmetry Graphene Quantum Dots

## 一些低对称石墨烯量子点光电性质的DFT和模型哈密顿量研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.19320

arXiv:2402.19320v3 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: We have studied the electronic and optical properties of three low-symmetry graphene quantum dots (GQDs), with the point-group symmetries $C_{2v}$, and $C_{2h}$. For the calculations of linear optical absorption spectra, we employed both the first-principles time-dependent density-functional theory (TDDFT), and the electron-correlated Pariser-Parr-Pople (PPP) model coupled with the configuration-interaction (CI) approach. In the PPP-CI approach, calculations were performed using both screened and standard parameters, along with efficiently incorporating electron correlation effects using multi-reference singles-doubles configuration-interaction for both ground and excited states. We assume that the GQDs are saturated by hydrogen atoms at the edges, making them effectively polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) dibenzo[bc,ef]coronene (also known as benzo(1,14)bisanthene, C$_{30}$H$_{14}$), and two isomeric compounds, dinaphtho[8,1,2abc;2,1,8klm]coronene and dinaphtho[8,1,2abc;2,1,8jkl]coronene with the chemical formula C$_{36}$H$_{16}$. The two isomers have different point group symmetries, therefore, this study will also help us understand the influence of symmetry on optical properties. A common feature of the absorption spectra of the three GQDs is that the first peak representing the optical gap is of low to moderate intensity, while the intense peaks appear at higher energies. For each GQD, PPP model calculations performed with the screened parameters agree well with the experimental results of the corresponding PAH, and also with the TDDFT calculations. To further quantify the influence of electron-correlation effects, we also computed the singlet-triplet gap (spin gap) of the three GQDs, and we found them to be significant.


---
# Parrondo's paradox in quantum walks with inhomogeneous coins

## 具有不均匀硬币的量子游走中的Parrondo悖论

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.16558

arXiv:2407.16558v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Parrondo's paradox, a counterintuitive phenomenon where two losing strategies combine to produce a winning outcome, has been a subject of interest across various scientific fields, including quantum mechanics. In this study, we investigate the manifestation of Parrondo's paradox in discrete-time quantum walks. We demonstrate the existence of Parrondo's paradox using space and time-dependent coins without the need for a higher-dimensional coin or adding decoherence to the system. Our results enhance the feasibility of practical implementations and provide deeper insights into the underlying quantum dynamics, specifically the propagation constrained by the interference pattern of quantum walks. The implications of our results suggest the potential for more accessible and efficient designs in quantum transport, broadening the scope and application of Parrondo's paradox beyond conventional frameworks.


---
# Intrinsic Quantum Mpemba Effect in Markovian Systems and Quantum Circuits

## 马尔可夫系统和量子电路中的本征量子Mpemba效应

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18417

arXiv:2411.18417v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: The quantum Mpemba effect (QME) describes the counterintuitive phenomenon in which a system farther from equilibrium reaches steady state faster than one closer to equilibrium. However, ambiguity in defining a suitable distance measure between quantum states has led to varied interpretations across different contexts. Here we propose the intrinsic quantum Mpemba effect (IQME), defined using the trajectory length traced by the quantum state as a more appropriate measure of distance--distinct from previous trajectory-independent metrics. By treating quantum states as points in a Riemannian space defined by statistical distance, the trajectory length emerges as a more natural and accurate characterization of the counterintuitive dynamics, drawing an analogy to the classical Brachistochrone problem. We demonstrate the existence of IQME in Markovian systems and extend its definition to quantum circuits, thereby establishing a unified framework applicable to both open and closed systems. Notably, we observe an IQME in a $U(1)$-symmetric circuit, offering new insights into the rates of quantum thermalization for different initial states. This work deepens our understanding of quantum state evolution and lays the foundation for accurately capturing novel quantum dynamical behaviour.


---
# Method-independent cusps for atomic orbitals in quantum Monte Carlo

## 量子蒙特卡罗中原子轨道的方法无关尖点

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04399

arXiv:2412.04399v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We present an approach for augmenting Gaussian atomic orbitals with correct nuclear cusps. Like the atomic orbital basis set itself, and unlike previous cusp corrections, this approach is independent of the many-body method used to prepare wave functions for quantum Monte Carlo. Once the basis set and molecular geometry are specified, the cusp-corrected atomic orbitals are uniquely specified, regardless of which density functionals, quantum chemistry methods, or subsequent variational Monte Carlo optimizations are employed. We analyze the statistical improvement offered by these cusps in a number of molecules and find them to offer similar advantages as molecular-orbital-based approaches while maintaining independence from the choice of many-body method.


---
# Two-dimensional \b{eta}-phase copper iodide: a promising candidate for low-temperature thermoelectric applications

## 二维 \ b{eta} 相碘化铜: 低温热电应用的有希望的候选者

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04035

arXiv:2412.04035v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Bismuth telluride-based materials is the only commercially viable room-temperature thermoelectric material, despite its limited tellurium and poor mechanical properties. The search for materials with a high figure of merit (zT > 1.00) near room temperature remains a major challenge. In this work, we systematically investigate the structural stability and the thermoelectric capabilities of monolayer \b{eta}-CuI and {\gamma}-CuI through the density functional theory (DFT) combined with Boltzmann transport theory. Based on the thermoelectric transport coefficients of monolayer \b{eta}-CuI and {\gamma}-CuI, we predict their zT values will vary with carrier concentration and increase with temperature. Comparing the zT values, monolayer \b{eta}-CuI demonstrates superior thermoelectric properties compared to {\gamma}-CuI. At room temperature, the optimal zT values of monolayer \b{eta}-CuI exceed 1.50, with particularly high values of 2.98 (p-type) and 4.10 (n-type) along the Zigzag direction, demonstrating significant anisotropy. These results suggest the great potential of the monolayer \b{eta}-CuI is promising candidate materials for low temperature thermoelectric applications.


---
# DFT and Model Hamiltonian Study of Optoelectronic Properties of Some Low-Symmetry Graphene Quantum Dots

## 一些低对称石墨烯量子点光电性质的DFT和模型哈密顿量研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.19320

arXiv:2402.19320v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We have studied the electronic and optical properties of three low-symmetry graphene quantum dots (GQDs), with the point-group symmetries $C_{2v}$, and $C_{2h}$. For the calculations of linear optical absorption spectra, we employed both the first-principles time-dependent density-functional theory (TDDFT), and the electron-correlated Pariser-Parr-Pople (PPP) model coupled with the configuration-interaction (CI) approach. In the PPP-CI approach, calculations were performed using both screened and standard parameters, along with efficiently incorporating electron correlation effects using multi-reference singles-doubles configuration-interaction for both ground and excited states. We assume that the GQDs are saturated by hydrogen atoms at the edges, making them effectively polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) dibenzo[bc,ef]coronene (also known as benzo(1,14)bisanthene, C$_{30}$H$_{14}$), and two isomeric compounds, dinaphtho[8,1,2abc;2,1,8klm]coronene and dinaphtho[8,1,2abc;2,1,8jkl]coronene with the chemical formula C$_{36}$H$_{16}$. The two isomers have different point group symmetries, therefore, this study will also help us understand the influence of symmetry on optical properties. A common feature of the absorption spectra of the three GQDs is that the first peak representing the optical gap is of low to moderate intensity, while the intense peaks appear at higher energies. For each GQD, PPP model calculations performed with the screened parameters agree well with the experimental results of the corresponding PAH, and also with the TDDFT calculations. To further quantify the influence of electron-correlation effects, we also computed the singlet-triplet gap (spin gap) of the three GQDs, and we found them to be significant.

