# Diamond-shaped quantum circuit for real-time quantum dynamics in one dimension

## 一维实时量子动力学的菱形量子电路

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevResearch.6.043318

**Authors:** Shohei Miyakoshi, Takanori Sugimoto, Tomonori Shirakawa, Seiji Yunoki, and Hiroshi Ueda

Author(s): Shohei Miyakoshi, Takanori Sugimoto, Tomonori Shirakawa, Seiji Yunoki, and Hiroshi Ueda<br /><p>In recent years, quantum computing has evolved as an exciting frontier, with the development of numerous algorithms dedicated to constructing quantum circuits that adeptly represent quantum many-body states. However, this domain remains in its early stages and requires further refinement to better u…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. Research 6, 043318] Published Thu Dec 26, 2024


---
# Analytical Derivative Approaches for Vibro-Polaritonic Structures and Properties I: Formalism and Implementation

## 振动极化结构和性质的分析导数方法I: 形式主义和实现

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-svrv2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** WanZhen, Liang

Vibro-polaritons are hybrid light-matter states that arise from the strong coupling between the molecular vibrational transitions and the photons in an optical cavity. Developing theoretical and computational methods to describe and predict the unique properties of vibro-polaritons is of great significance for guiding the design of new materials and experiments. Here we present the \textit{ab initio} cavity Born-Oppenheimer density functional theory (CBO-DFT), and formulate the analytic energy gradient and Hessian as well as the nuclear and photonic derivatives of dipole and polarizability within the framework of CBO-DFT to efficiently calculate the harmonic vibrational frequencies, infrared absorption and Raman scattering spectra of vibro-polaritons as well as to explore the critical points on the cavity potential energy surface. The implementation of analytic derivatives into the electronic structure package is validated by comparison with the finite-difference method and with other reported computational results. By adopting appropriate exchange-correlation functionals, CBO-DFT can better describe the structure and properties of molecules in the cavity than CBO-Hartree-Fock method. It is expected that CBO-DFT is a useful tool for studying the polaritonic structures and properties.


---
# Bridging outer- and inner-sphere electrosynthesis from biomass-derived furfural using single atom catalysts

## 使用单原子催化剂从生物质衍生的糠醛桥接外层和内层电合成

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-wkb5b?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Georg, Kastlunger

Nitrogen-doped carbon-based single-atom catalysts offer unique and tunable active sites to catalyze a wide spectrum of electrochemical processes. Despite recent progress on single-atom electrocatalysis, their potential application to upgrade biomass-derived chemicals has been rarely investigated. Herein, we carried out density functional theory-based screening of metal-nitrogen-carbon (MNC) single-atom catalysts for electrocatalytic furfural reduction. Using furfural’s adsorption strength as a descriptor, we identified CrNC to be promising to promote furfuryl alcohol production in contrast to other single atom motifs which are only selective to hydrofuroin. Its higher selectivity towards furfuryl alcohol can be attributed to the enhanced adsorption strength of furfural via chemisorption of the carbonyl group and its overall enhanced oxygen binding strength. We then synthesized the single-atom motifs via their incorporation in a highly porous nitrogen doped carbon synthesized through an ionothermal templating process. In agreement with our predictions, CrNC was able to produce furfuryl alcohol with Faradaic efficiency of ca. 18 %, while Co-, Fe- and NiNC motifs selectively produce hydrofuroin, with limited Faradaic efficiencies to furfuryl alcohol < 3 %. Our work showcases a workflow to design and optimize single-atom catalysts to bridge the outer-sphere and inner-sphere selectivity in electrosynthesis from biomass-derived chemicals.


---
# Automated Multireference Vertical Excitations for Transition Metal Compounds

## 过渡金属化合物的自动多参考垂直激发

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-nsj0f?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Laura, Gagliardi

Excited states of transition metal complexes are generally strongly correlated due to the near-degeneracy of the metal d orbitals. Consequently, electronic structure calculations of such species often necessitate multireference approaches. However, widespread use of multireference methods is hindered due to the active space selection problem, which has historically required system-specific chemical knowledge and a trial-and-error approach. Here, we address this issue with an automated method combining the approximate pair coefficient (APC) scheme for estimating orbital entropies with the discrete variational selection (DVS) approach for evaluating active space quality. We apply DVS-APC to the calculation of 67 vertical excitations in transition metal diatomics as well as to two larger complexes. We show DVS-APC generated active spaces yield NEVPT2 mean absolute errors of 0.18 eV, in line with previous accuracies obtained for organic systems, but larger than errors achieved with hand-selected active spaces (0.14 eV). If instead of using DVS we identify the best results from our trial wave functions, we find improved performance (mean absolute error of 0.1 eV) over the manually selected results. We highlight this deviation between DVS and hand selected active spaces as a possible measure of bias introduced when hand selecting active spaces. However, we find that multiconfiguration pair-density functional theory (MC-PDFT) using the tPBE and tPBE0 functionals is roughly 0.15 eV less accurate than NEVPT2 across this class of diatomic systems, potentially accounting for the decreased performance of DVS-APC, which uses MC-PDFT energies to select between active spaces. We also showcase an ability to ``down-sample'' the DVS-APC wave functions using natural orbital occupancies to achieve smaller minimal active spaces which retain the accuracy of the larger starting active spaces. Finally, DVS-APC and tPBE0 are proven to be effective when applied to modeling excited states in two larger transition metal complexes, suggesting that the transition metal diatomics may be a particular outstanding challenge for DVS-APC and MC-PDFT approaches.

