# New models of clean and hydrogenated amorphous silicon surfaces

## 清洁和氢化非晶硅表面的新模型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.14270

**Authors:** Kishor Nepal, Aashish Gautam, Chinonso Ugwumadu, David Drabold

arXiv:2412.14270v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We present new atomistic models of amorphous silicon (a-Si) and hydrogenated amorphous silicon (a-Si:H) surfaces. The a-Si model included 4096 atoms and was obtained using local orbital density functional theory. By analyzing a slab model (periodic in two dimensions with a slab about 44 \AA{} thick), we observed a strong correlation between surface structure and surface charge density, which might be compared to STM experiments. Hydrogen atoms added near the under-coordinated surface atoms passivate dangling bonds and induce structural rearrangements. We analyze the electronic structure, including the localization of the states, and note resonant mixing between bulk and surface defect structures. We also compute the classical normal modes of the hydrogenated a-Si and compare them to experiments where possible. Our work is a step toward understanding the meaning of ``surface reconstruction" for a noncrystalline material.


---
# The impact of strain on the GeV-color center in diamond

## 应变对钻石中GeV色心的影响

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.14321

**Authors:** Thijs G. I. van Wijk, E. Aylin Melan, Rani Mary Joy, Emerick Y. Guillaume, Paulius Pobedinskas, Ken Haenen, Danny E. P. Vanpoucke

arXiv:2412.14321v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Color centers in diamond, such as the GeV center, are promising candidates for quantum-based applications. Here, we investigate the impact of strain on the zero-phonon line (ZPL) position of GeV$^0$. Both hydrostatic and linear strain are modeled using density functional theory for GeV$^0$ concentrations of $1.61$ \% down to $0.10$ \%. We present qualitative and quantitative differences between the two strain types: for hydrostatic tensile and compressive strain, red-and blue-shifted ZPL positions are expected, respectively, with a linear relation between the ZPL shift and the experienced stress. By calculating the ZPL shift for varying GeV$^0$ concentrations, a shift of $0.15$ nm/GPa ($0.38$ meV/GPa) is obtained at experimentally relevant concentrations using a hybrid functional. In contrast, only red-shifted ZPL are found for tensile and compressive linear strain along the $\langle100\rangle$ direction. The calculated ZPL shift exceeds that of hydrostatic strain by at least one order of magnitude, with a significant difference between tensile and compressive strains: $3.2$ and $4.8$ nm/GPa ($8.1$ and $11.7$ meV/GPa), respectively. In addition, a peak broadening is expected due to the lifted degeneracy of the GeV$^0$ $e_g$ state, calculated to be about $6$ meV/GPa. These calculated results are placed in perspective with experimental observations, showing values of ZPL shifts and splittings of comparable magnitude.


---
# Coexisting multiphase and interfacial behaviour of ouzo

## ouzo的共存多相和界面行为

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.14774

**Authors:** David N. Sibley, Benjamin D. Goddard, Fouzia F. Ouali, David J. Fairhurst, Andrew J. Archer

arXiv:2412.14774v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Multi-component liquid mixtures can be both complex and fascinating, with some systems being amenable to simple experimentation at home, giving valuable insight into fundamental aspects of bulk and interfacial phase behaviour. One particularly interesting mixture is the popular drink ouzo, which has charmed both the general public and scientists by virtue of its ability to display spontaneous emulsification when water is added. When these two clear (and potable) liquids are poured into each other, a single milky-coloured liquid is formed. In previous work [Archer et al., Soft Matter 20, 5889 (2024)], the equilibrium phase-diagram for the stable liquid phases of ouzo was captured via experiment and modelling. Here we consider the case when the two liquid phases also coexist with the vapour phase (i.e. along a line of triple points) and within our model uncover the complex bulk phase behaviour for this simple beverage. As a consequence, this leads to some interesting observations, that also apply more widely, about visualising phase diagrams in ternary systems of this type. We also examine the interfacial behaviour, connecting microscopic density functional theory results with macroscopic (Neumann) predictions for the shape of droplets at interfaces.


---
# Non-Markovian Effects in Quantum Rate Calculations of Hydrogen Diffusion with Electronic Friction

## 具有电子摩擦的氢扩散量子速率计算中的非马尔可夫效应

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.15014

**Authors:** George Trenins, Mariana Rossi

arXiv:2412.15014v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We address the challenge of incorporating non-Markovian electronic friction effects in quantum-mechanical approximations of dynamical observables. A generalized Langevin equation (GLE) is formulated for ring-polymer molecular dynamics (RPMD) rate calculations, which combines electronic friction with a description of nuclear quantum effects (NQEs) for adsorbates on metal surfaces. An efficient propagation algorithm is introduced that captures both the spatial dependence of friction strength and non-Markovian frictional memory. This framework is applied to a model of hydrogen diffusing on Cu(111) derived from ab initio density functional theory (DFT) calculations, revealing significant alterations in rate constants and tunnelling crossover temperatures due to non-Markovian effects. Our findings explain why previous classical molecular dynamics simulations with Markovian friction showed unexpectedly good agreement with experiment, highlighting the critical role of non-Markovian effects in first-principles atomistic simulations.


---
# The $N_2V$ color center: a ubiquitous visible and near-infrared-II quantum emitter in nitrogen-doped diamond

## $ N_2V $ 色心: 掺氮金刚石中普遍存在的可见光和近红外-II量子发射体

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11054

**Authors:** Brett C. Johnson, Mitchell O. de Vries, Alexander J. Healey, Marco Capelli, Anjay Manian, Giannis Thalassinos, Amanda N. Abraham, Harini Hapuarachchi, Tingpeng Luo, Vadym Mochalin, Jan Jeske, Jared H. Cole, Salvy Russo, Brant C. Gibson, Alastair Stacey, Philipp Reineck

arXiv:2412.11054v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Photoluminescent defects in diamond, like the nitrogen-vacancy (NV) color center, are at the forefront of emerging optical quantum technologies. Most emit in the visible and near-infrared spectral region below 1000 nm (NIR-I), limiting their applications in photonics, fiber communications, and biology. Here, we show that the nitrogen-vacancy-nitrogen ($N_2V$) center, which emits in the visible and near-infrared-II (NIR-II, 1000-1700 nm), is ubiquitous in as-synthesized and processed nitrogen-doped diamond from bulk samples to nanoparticles. We demonstrate that $N_2V$ is also present in commercially available state-of-the-art NV diamond sensing chips made via chemical vapor deposition (CVD). In high-pressure high-temperature (HPHT) diamonds, the photoluminescence (PL) intensity of both $N_2V$ charge states, $N_2V^0$ in the visible and $N_2V^-$ in the NIR-II, increases with increasing substitutional nitrogen concentration. We determine the PL lifetime of $N_2V^-$ to be 0.3 ns and compare a quantum optical and density functional theory model of the $N_2V^-$ with experimental PL spectra. Finally, we show that detonation nanodiamonds (DND) show stable PL in the NIR-II, which we attribute to the $N_2V$ color center, and use this NIR-II PL to image DNDs inside skin cells. Our results will contribute to the scientific and technological exploration and development of the $N_2V$ color center and inspire more research into its effect on other color centers in diamond.


---
# Ultimate precision limit of quantum thermal machines

## 量子热机的最终精度极限

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.07271

**Authors:** Yoshihiko Hasegawa

arXiv:2412.07271v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Enhancing the precision of a thermodynamic process inevitably necessitates a thermodynamic cost, a principle formulated as the thermodynamic uncertainty relation. The thermodynamic uncertainty relation states that the relative variance of thermodynamic currents, calculated as the variance divided by the squared mean, decreases as entropy production increases. This means that if entropy production were allowed to become infinitely large, the relative variance could approach zero. However, it is evident that realizing infinitely large entropy production is infeasible in reality. In this Letter, we establish the ultimate limits of precision for open quantum thermal machines operating within a finite-dimensional system and environment. We derive bounds on the relative variance and the expectation of observables, applicable to any unitary evolution of the composite system. These bounds are governed by the \textit{minimum eigenvalue factor}, which serves as a maximal entropy production attainable by the quantum dynamics and parallels the concept of dynamical activity in classical stochastic thermodynamic. Additionally, we investigate how quantum coherence in the initial environmental state affects these fundamental bounds, showing that the presence of coherence can actually improve the ultimate precision limits. Our findings provide insights into fundamental limits on the precision of quantum thermal machines and the role of quantum effects in thermodynamic processes.


---
# The impact of strain on the GeV-color center in diamond

## 应变对钻石中GeV色心的影响

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.14321

**Authors:** Thijs G. I. van Wijk, E. Aylin Melan, Rani Mary Joy, Emerick Y. Guillaume, Paulius Pobedinskas, Ken Haenen, Danny E. P. Vanpoucke

arXiv:2412.14321v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Color centers in diamond, such as the GeV center, are promising candidates for quantum-based applications. Here, we investigate the impact of strain on the zero-phonon line (ZPL) position of GeV$^0$. Both hydrostatic and linear strain are modeled using density functional theory for GeV$^0$ concentrations of $1.61$ \% down to $0.10$ \%. We present qualitative and quantitative differences between the two strain types: for hydrostatic tensile and compressive strain, red-and blue-shifted ZPL positions are expected, respectively, with a linear relation between the ZPL shift and the experienced stress. By calculating the ZPL shift for varying GeV$^0$ concentrations, a shift of $0.15$ nm/GPa ($0.38$ meV/GPa) is obtained at experimentally relevant concentrations using a hybrid functional. In contrast, only red-shifted ZPL are found for tensile and compressive linear strain along the $\langle100\rangle$ direction. The calculated ZPL shift exceeds that of hydrostatic strain by at least one order of magnitude, with a significant difference between tensile and compressive strains: $3.2$ and $4.8$ nm/GPa ($8.1$ and $11.7$ meV/GPa), respectively. In addition, a peak broadening is expected due to the lifted degeneracy of the GeV$^0$ $e_g$ state, calculated to be about $6$ meV/GPa. These calculated results are placed in perspective with experimental observations, showing values of ZPL shifts and splittings of comparable magnitude.


---
# Non-Markovian Effects in Quantum Rate Calculations of Hydrogen Diffusion with Electronic Friction

## 具有电子摩擦的氢扩散量子速率计算中的非马尔可夫效应

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.15014

**Authors:** George Trenins, Mariana Rossi

arXiv:2412.15014v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We address the challenge of incorporating non-Markovian electronic friction effects in quantum-mechanical approximations of dynamical observables. A generalized Langevin equation (GLE) is formulated for ring-polymer molecular dynamics (RPMD) rate calculations, which combines electronic friction with a description of nuclear quantum effects (NQEs) for adsorbates on metal surfaces. An efficient propagation algorithm is introduced that captures both the spatial dependence of friction strength and non-Markovian frictional memory. This framework is applied to a model of hydrogen diffusing on Cu(111) derived from ab initio density functional theory (DFT) calculations, revealing significant alterations in rate constants and tunnelling crossover temperatures due to non-Markovian effects. Our findings explain why previous classical molecular dynamics simulations with Markovian friction showed unexpectedly good agreement with experiment, highlighting the critical role of non-Markovian effects in first-principles atomistic simulations.


---
# Multidimensional quantum dynamics with explicitly correlated Gaussian wave packets using Rothe's method

## 使用Rothe方法具有明确相关的高斯波包的多维量子动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.05459

**Authors:** Simon Elias Schrader, Thomas Bondo Pedersen, Simen Kvaal

arXiv:2411.05459v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: In a previous publication [J. Chem. Phys., 161, 044105 (2024)], it has been shown that Rothe's method can be used to solve the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation (TDSE) for the hydrogen atom in a strong laser field using time-dependent Gaussian wave packets. Here, we generalize these results, showing that Rothe's method can propagate arbitrary numbers of thawed, complex-valued, explicitly correlated Gaussian functions (ECGs) with dense correlation matrices for systems with varying dimensionality. We consider the multidimensional Henon-Heiles potential, and show that the dynamics can be quantitatively reproduced using only 30 Gaussians in 2D, and that accurate spectra can be obtained using 20 Gaussians in 2D and 30 to 40 Gaussians in 3D and 4D. Thus, the relevant multidimensional dynamics can be described at high quality using only a small number of ECGs that give a very compact representation of the wave function. This efficient representation, along with the demonstrated ability of Rothe's method to propagate Gaussian wave packets in strong fields and ECGs in complex potentials, paves the way for accurate molecular dynamics calculations beyond the Born-Oppenheimer approximation in strong fields.


---
# Downsizing Lactams via Rh-Catalyzed C–C Activation

## 通过Rh催化的c-c活化降低内酰胺

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-rqq9s?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Guangbin, Dong

Ring-contraction reactions are valuable transformations to access harder-to-synthesize smaller-sized rings from more available larger-sized precursors. Herein, we report an unprecedented lactam downsizing strategy by taking advantage of removable directing groups (DGs) and Rh-catalyzed C–C activation. A mild method for DG installation to common lactam substrates is developed
by employing silylated amines and Ti catalysts, and the resulting amidine moiety can be converted back to lactams via acid mediated hydrolysis. The ring-contraction reaction exhibits a broad substrate scope, excellent functional group tolerance, and high selectivity for yielding γ-lactams, facilitating “6-to-5”, “7-to-5”, and “8-to-5” ring contractions. Additionally, through careful selection of DGs and ligands, preliminary results on selective “7-to-6” ring contraction has been obtained. Finally, density functional theory (DFT) calculations reveal the origin of the product selectivity.


---
# Evolution Path of Nitrogen-Water Cluster Cation: A Theoretical Study

## 氮-水团簇阳离子演化路径的理论研究

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-3nnbx?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Zile, Zhu

We applied a highly accurate Density Functional Theory (DFT) method to obtain thermodynamic data for various water-nitrogen clusters. In combination with ab initio molecular dynamics (AIMD) simulations and wavefunction analysis, we proposed a theoretical pathway for the evolution of nitrogen-water cation clusters, offering insights into the formation of oxidative environments. Our calculations reveal that nitrogen molecules can form weak bonds with certain hydrogen-oxygen cations, stabilizing key intermediates during hydroxyl radical transfer. This interaction alters the cluster’s evolution. Our findings show a clear map of how nitrogen-water cluster cations evolute and give radicals or other active redox reactants.


---
# Strain-Release Radical-Polar Crossover Annulation: A Unified Strategy to Access Spiro-, Fused-, and Enantioenriched-Aza/Oxa-Bicyclo[3.1.1]hepatanes

## 应变释放自由基-极性交叉环: 一种统一的策略来获取螺-，融合-和对映富集的-氮杂/氧杂-双环 [3.1.1] 肝烷

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-px1f3?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Buddhadeb, Sahana

Conformationally rigid bridged bicyclic scaffolds have emerged as bioisosteric replacements for planar aromatic rings. However, bioisosteric mimetics of heteroaromatic rings have been investigated less due to the challenges of incorporating heteroatoms into bicycloalkanes. Herein, we report a unified strategy to access both aza- and oxa-bicyclo[3.1.1]heptanes in a single experimental protocol from readily accessible amino/hydroxy acids under photoredox catalysis. The method shows broad applicability across various redox-active esters and bicyclo[1.1.0]butanes and successfully provides previously inaccessible spiro- and fused-heterobicyclo[3.1.1]heptanes. Noteworthy, chiral amino/hydroxy acids derived redox-active esters could be used to access enantioenriched chiral heterobicyclo[3.1.1]heptanes. Furthermore, the strategy has been extended to access aza-bicyclo[2.1.1]hexanes, another important motif in medicinal chemistry. The functional groups introduced during the reaction serve as a synthetic handle for downstream manipulation, thus offering opportunities to build up molecular complexity rapidly. Density functional theory calculations and experimental studies support an oxidative radical-polar crossover mechanism and rationalize the observed regioselectivity.

