# First-principles study of the physical properties and Hirshfeld surface analysis of the antidepressants duloxetine and sertraline

## 抗抑郁药度洛西汀和舍曲林的物理性质和Hirshfeld表面分析的第一性原理研究

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.110.245130

**Authors:** R. L. Araújo, J. X. Lima Neto, U. L. Fulco, J. I. N. Oliveira, E. L. Albuquerque, L. R. da Silva, A. Torres, M. L. Lyra, and V. Manzoni

Author(s): R. L. Araújo, J. X. Lima Neto, U. L. Fulco, J. I. N. Oliveira, E. L. Albuquerque, L. R. da Silva, A. Torres, M. L. Lyra, and V. Manzoni<br /><p>The structural, electronic, optical, and vibrational properties of the antidepressant drugs duloxetine and sertraline were investigated through first-principles calculations using the density functional theory approach; in addition, the Hirshfeld surface was analyzed. Duloxetine had an indirect band…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 110, 245130] Published Wed Dec 18, 2024


---
# Magnetism and weak electronic correlations in Kagome metal ScV$_6$Sn$_6$

## Kagome金属ScV中的磁性和弱电子相关性 $_6 $ Sn $_6 $

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.12908

**Authors:** Tianye Yu, Junwen Lai, Xiangyang Liu, Peitao Liu, Xing-Qiu Chen, Yan Sun

arXiv:2412.12908v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: As one class of typical quantum materials, Kagome metals in $A$V$_3$Sb$_5$($A$ = K, Rb, Cs) have attracted extensive attentions due to their interesting physical properties and different quantum phases of charge density wave (CDW), superconductivity and nontrivial topology. Recently, a new CDW phase in ScV$_6$Sn$_6$ was experimentally observed and inspired a wide study of the mechanism of driving force. To have a clear understanding of the correlation effect in the CDW phase in ScV$_6$Sn$_6$, we performed a systematic density functional theory plus dynamical mean field theory (DFT + DMFT) calculations. The resulting static local spin susceptibility is nearly independent of temperature, indicating the absence of local moment on atom V, in full agreement with experimental measurements. The mass enhancements of quasiparticles and
  bandwidth renormalizations near the Fermi level show a weak correlation strength in ScV$_6$Sn$_6$. In addition, the comparable mass enhancements of quasiparticles in ScV$_6$Sn$_6$ with CDW order and YV$_6$Sn$_6$ without CDW phase suggests that electronic correlations corresponding to Fermi surface nesting do not play the dominant role in the formation of CDW order in ScV$_6$Sn$_6$.


---
# Electron-Electron Interactions in Device Simulation via Non-equilibrium Green's Functions and the GW Approximation

## 通过非平衡格林函数和GW近似的器件模拟中的电子-电子相互作用

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.12986

**Authors:** Leonard Deuschle, Jiang Cao, Alexandros Nikolaos Ziogas, Anders Winka, Alexander Maeder, Nicolas Vetsch, Mathieu Luisier

arXiv:2412.12986v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The continuous scaling of metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect transistors (MOSFETs) has led to device geometries where charged carriers are increasingly confined to ever smaller channel cross sections. This development is associated with reduced screening of long-range Coulomb interactions. To accurately predict the behavior of such ultra-scaled devices, electron-electron (e-e) interactions must be explicitly incorporated in their quantum transport simulation. In this paper, we present an \textit{ab initio} atomistic simulation framework based on density functional theory, the non-equilibrium Green's function formalism, and the self-consistent GW approximation to perform this task. The implemented method is first validated with a carbon nanotube test structure before being applied to calculate the transfer characteristics of a silicon nanowire MOSFET in a gate-all-around configuration. As a consequence of e-e scattering, the energy and spatial distribution of the carrier and current densities both significantly change, while the on-current of the transistor decreases owing to the Coulomb repulsion between the electrons. Furthermore, we demonstrate how the resulting bandgap modulation of the nanowire channel as a function of the gate-to-source voltage could potentially improve the device performance. To the best of our knowledge, this study is the first one reporting large-scale atomistic quantum transport simulations of nano-devices under non-equilibrium conditions and in the presence of e-e interactions within the GW approximation.


---
# Phase transitions from Heating to non-heating in SU(1, 1) quantum dynamics: applications to Bose-Einstein condensates and periodically driven coupled oscillators

## SU(1，1) 量子动力学中从加热到不加热的相变: 在玻色-爱因斯坦凝聚体和周期性驱动的耦合振荡器中的应用

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.12558

**Authors:** Heng-Hsi Li, Po-Yao Chang

arXiv:2405.12558v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We study the entanglement properties in non-equilibrium quantum systems with the SU(1, 1) structure. Through M\"obius transformation, we map the dynamics of these systems following a sudden quench or a periodic drive onto three distinct trajectories on the Poincar\'e disc, corresponding the heating, non-heating, and a phase boundary describing these non-equilibrium quantum states. We consider two experimentally feasible systems where their quantum dynamics exhibit the SU(1, 1) structure: the quench dynamics of the Bose-Einstein condensates and the periodically driven coupled oscillators. In both cases, the heating, non-heating phases, and their boundary manifest through distinct signatures in the phonon population where exponential, oscillatory, and linear growths classify these phases. Similarly, the entanglement entropy and negativity also exhibit distinct behaviors (linearly, oscillatory, and logarithmic growths) characterizing these phases, respectively. Notibly, for the periodically driven coupled oscillators, the non-equilibrium properties are characterized by two sets of SU(1, 1) generators. The corresponding two sets of the trajectories on two Poincar\'e discs lead to a more complex phase diagram. We identify two distinct phases within the heating region discernible solely by the growth rate of the entanglement entropy, where a discontinuity is observed when varying the parameters across the phase boundary within in heating region. This discontinuity is not observed in the phonon population.


---
# Untangling the Raman spectrum of cubic and tetragonal BaZrO$_3$

## 解开立方和四方BaZrO $_3 $ 的拉曼光谱

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.16161

**Authors:** Petter Rosander, Erik Fransson, Nicklas \"Osterbacka, Paul Erhart, G\"oran Wahnstr\"om

arXiv:2409.16161v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Raman spectroscopy is a widely used experimental technique to study the vibrational properties of solids. Atomic scale simulations can be used to predict such spectra, but trustworthy studies at finite temperatures are challenging, mainly due to the requirement of accurate and computationally efficient models for the dielectric susceptibility. Here, we have made use of molecular dynamics (MD) simulations together with a density functional theory (DFT) based model for the dielectric susceptibility to determine the Raman spectrum of barium zirconate, BaZrO$_3$ (BZO), a well-studied oxide perovskite. At ambient conditions, where the system is cubic, we find excellent agreement with experimentally measured Raman spectra. Our study establishes that the relatively sharp spectra seen experimentally are due to second-order scattering. At higher pressures, where BZO is tetragonal, all first-order Raman active modes are identified. Additionally, slightly below the phase transition, in the cubic phase, a broad "central Raman peak" appears. The origin of this type of peak is controversial and extensively debated in connection to the dynamics of the halide perovskites. Here, we show that it is also present in a "hard" oxide perovskite, and it originates from the highly overdamped R-tilt mode in the cubic structure.


---
# Intertwined charge and spin density wave state of La$_3$Ni$_2$O$_7$

## La $_3 $ Ni $_2 $ O $_7 $ 的交织电荷和自旋密度波态

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.15649

**Authors:** Chenye Qin, Kateryna Foyevtsova, Liang Si, George A. Sawatzky, Mi Jiang

arXiv:2410.15649v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Research on nickel-based superconductors has progressed from infinite-layer LaNiO$_2$ to finite-layer La$_{6}$Ni$_{5}$O$_{12}$, and most recently to the Ruddlesden-Popper-phase La$_3$Ni$_2$O$_7$ discovered under pressure $\sim$16\,GPa, the system exhibits the onset of superconductivity at approximately $\sim$80\,K. Unlike the $d$-wave superconductivity driven by the nearly half-filled $d_{x^2-y^2}$ orbitals in finite- and infinite-layers nickelates, the Ni-$d_{z^2}$ and O-2$p$ orbitals contribute significantly to the low energy states and potentially to the superconducting electron pairing mechanism. Employing density functional calculations and multi-orbital multi-atom Ni$_2$O$_9$ cluster exact diagonalization including local exchange and coulomb interactions, we delve into the pressure dependent electronic structure of the Ni$_2$O$_9$ cluster. We find that several possible charge and spin ordering states are nearly degenerate at ambient pressure but become strongly mixed leading to a more homogeneous phase at high pressure. The various possible spin states and the exchange and superexchange mechanisms are quantified via the involvement of the Ni-$3d_{3z^2-r^2}$ orbitals, the apical bridging O $2p_z$ orbitals, and the orbitals involved in the formation of local Zhang-Rice singlet like states. We note that the energy difference between the charge (CDW)/spin (SDW) density wave states and the uniform high pressure phase is about 10 meV in concordance with phase transition temperatures found experimentally at ambient pressure.


---
# Ab Initio Conformational Analysis of $\alpha$/$\beta$-D-Xylopyranose at Pyrolysis Conditions

## 热解条件下 $ \ alpha $/$ \ beta $-D-吡喃木糖的从头构象分析

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.12847

**Authors:** Bernardo Ballotta, Jacopo Lupi, Leandro Ayarde-Henr\'iquez, Stephen Dooley

arXiv:2412.12847v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Xylopyranose is the principal monosaccharide unit of hemicellulose, one of the three major biopolymers of lignocellulosic biomass. Understanding its decomposition mechanism is increasingly relevant for thermochemical biorefinery research such as pyrolysis. Significant efforts have been made to study its chemical and structural properties using both computational and experimental methods. However, due to its high structural flexibility and numerous hydroxyl groups, various metastable conformers arise. In this work, we performed a computational exploration of the conformational space of both anomeric forms, $\alpha$ and $\beta$ , of D-xylopyranose using the semi-empirical GFN2-xTB method in conjunction with metadynamics and density functional theory simulations for structural optimization and vibrational analysis. Xylopyranose conformers free energy and enthalpy variations are analyzed across temperatures typical of fast biomass pyrolysis (298-1068 K), with the Boltzmann population distribution of the most populated conformers determined. This study provides a detailed computational analysis of the conformational space and thermochemistry of xylopyranose. Additionally, 44 and 59 conformers of the $\alpha$ and $\beta$ anomers were found, for both of which a selection of 10 conformers based on Boltzmann population distribution analysis is performed to reduce the conformational space for ab initio studies of the pyrolysis reaction kinetics.


---
# Magnetism and weak electronic correlations in Kagome metal ScV$_6$Sn$_6$

## Kagome金属ScV中的磁性和弱电子相关性 $_6 $ Sn $_6 $

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.12908

**Authors:** Tianye Yu, Junwen Lai, Xiangyang Liu, Peitao Liu, Xing-Qiu Chen, Yan Sun

arXiv:2412.12908v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: As one class of typical quantum materials, Kagome metals in $A$V$_3$Sb$_5$($A$ = K, Rb, Cs) have attracted extensive attentions due to their interesting physical properties and different quantum phases of charge density wave (CDW), superconductivity and nontrivial topology. Recently, a new CDW phase in ScV$_6$Sn$_6$ was experimentally observed and inspired a wide study of the mechanism of driving force. To have a clear understanding of the correlation effect in the CDW phase in ScV$_6$Sn$_6$, we performed a systematic density functional theory plus dynamical mean field theory (DFT + DMFT) calculations. The resulting static local spin susceptibility is nearly independent of temperature, indicating the absence of local moment on atom V, in full agreement with experimental measurements. The mass enhancements of quasiparticles and
  bandwidth renormalizations near the Fermi level show a weak correlation strength in ScV$_6$Sn$_6$. In addition, the comparable mass enhancements of quasiparticles in ScV$_6$Sn$_6$ with CDW order and YV$_6$Sn$_6$ without CDW phase suggests that electronic correlations corresponding to Fermi surface nesting do not play the dominant role in the formation of CDW order in ScV$_6$Sn$_6$.

