# Ab Initio studies on strain-dependant thermal transport properties of Graphene

## 石墨烯应变相关热输运性质的从头算研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.17871

**Authors:** Archishman Gupta, Ankit Arora

arXiv:2412.17871v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: In this work, we present a comprehensive investigation of graphene's thermal conductivity using first-principles density functional perturbation theory calculations, with a focus on the phonon and lattice vibrational properties underlying its superior heat transport capabilities. The study highlights the role of phonon frequencies, lifetimes and mode-resolved contributions in determining graphene's thermal performance, emphasizing its high phonon group velocities and long mean free paths that contribute to thermal conductivity exceeding 3000 W/mK at room temperature. The results are compared with other two-dimensional materials like silicene (10 W/mK) and MoS2 (83 W/mK), to underline graphene's advantages in nanoscale applications. Here we report the concept of "velocity-lifetime trade-off" and use it to explain graphene's excellent invariance to high tensile and compressive strains as it exhibits minimal variation in thermal conductivity, making it an ideal material for applications requiring stability in environments with strain variability and deformation. This study establishes graphene as a benchmark material for thermal transport in next-generation 2D channel FET devices and offers a roadmap for its optimization in practical applications.


---
# Relativistic Dynamics and Electron Transport in Isolated Chiral Molecules

## 孤立手性分子的相对论动力学和电子传输

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18413

**Authors:** Sushant Kumar Behera, Ruggero Sala, Abhirup Roy Karmakar, Matteo Moioli, Rocco Martinazzo, Matteo Cococcioni

arXiv:2412.18413v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The Chirality-Induced Spin Selectivity (CISS) effect describes the ability of chiral molecules and crystals to transmit spin-polarized currents, a phenomenon first identified in 1999. Although this effect holds great promise for a broad spectrum of different applications (including, $\textit{e.g.}$, spintronics, quantum computing, spin- and enantio-selective chemistry) in spintronics and electron transfer processes, its underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. The prevailing hypothesis attributes the CISS effect to enhanced spin-orbit coupling (SOC) within chiral molecules. However, the SOC magnitude required to align with experimental observations significantly exceeds the values derived from conventional atomic-scale calculations, particularly for systems composed of light atoms. In this work, we leverage the implementation of fully relativistic density functional theory (DFT) equation, as available in the Dirac code, to investigate how molecular chirality manifest itself in the chirality density of the outermost electron density. We further explore how this responds to an applied external electric field. To assess spin-dependent transport, we employ the Landauer-Imry-B\"uttiker formalism, examining the dependence of spin transmission on the twist angle of the molecular structure that defines its geometrical chirality. While our findings qualitatively align with experimental trends, they point to the necessity of a more general treatment of SOC, $\textit{e.g.}$, including geometrical terms or through the dependence of advanced exchange-correlation functionals on the electronic spin-current density.


---
# Advancing Surface Chemistry with Large-Scale Ab-Initio Quantum Many-Body Simulations

## 通过大规模从头开始量子多体模拟推进表面化学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18553

**Authors:** Zigeng Huang, Zhen Guo, Changsu Cao, Hung Q. Pham, Xuelan Wen, George H. Booth, Ji Chen, Dingshun Lv

arXiv:2412.18553v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Predictive simulation of surface chemistry is of paramount importance for progress in fields from catalysis to electrochemistry and clean energy generation. Ab-initio quantum many-body methods should be offering deep insights into these systems at the electronic level, but are limited in their efficacy by their steep computational cost. In this work, we build upon state-of-the-art correlated wavefunctions to reliably converge to the `gold standard' accuracy in quantum chemistry for application to extended surface chemistry. Efficiently harnessing graphics processing unit acceleration along with systematically improvable multiscale resolution techniques, we achieve linear computational scaling up to 392 atoms in size. These large-scale simulations demonstrate the importance of converging to these extended system sizes, achieving a validating handshake between simulations with different boundary conditions for the interaction of water on a graphene surface. We provide a new benchmark for this water-graphene interaction that clarifies the preference for water orientations at the graphene interface. This is extended to the adsorption of carbonaceous molecules on chemically complex surfaces, including metal oxides and metal-organic frameworks, where we consistently achieve chemical accuracy compared to experimental references, and well inside the scatter of traditional density functional material modeling approaches. This pushes the state of the art for simulation of molecular adsorption on surfaces, and marks progress into a post-density functional era for more reliable and improvable approaches to first-principles modeling of surface problems at an unprecedented scale and accuracy using ab-initio quantum many-body methods.


---
# Resonant inelastic X-ray scattering in the topological semimetal FeSi

## 拓扑半金属FeSi中的共振非弹性x射线散射

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.02677

**Authors:** Yao Shen, Anirudh Chandrasekaran, Jennifer Sears, Tiantian Zhang, Xin Han, Youguo Shi, Jiemin Li, Jonathan Pelliciari, Valentina Bisogni, Mark P. M. Dean, Stefanos Kourtis

arXiv:2301.02677v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: The energy spectrum of topological semimetals contains protected degeneracies in reciprocal space that correspond to Weyl, Dirac, or multifold fermionic states. To exploit the unconventional properties of these states, one has to access the electronic structure of the three-dimensional bulk. In this work, we present the first joint theory-experiment study of the electronic structure of a candidate topological semimetal with resonant inelastic X-ray scattering (RIXS). We resolve the bulk electronic states of FeSi using momentum-dependent RIXS at the Fe $L_3$ edge. We observe a broad excitation continuum devoid of sharp features, consistent with particle-hole scattering in an underlying electronic band structure. Using density functional theory (DFT), we calculate the electronic structure of FeSi and derive a band theory formulation of RIXS in the fast collision approximation to model the scattering process with zero adjustable parameters. While band theory predicts an excitation continuum with broad spectral features similar to the observed ones, discrepancies between theory and experiment suggest the presence of low-energy processes that DFT alone does not account for. This first study of RIXS in a topological semimetal shows that RIXS is a useful tool for revealing unanticipated behavior of bulk electronic states in this class of materials.


---
# Why does silicon have an indirect band gap?

## 为什么硅具有间接带隙？

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.05634

**Authors:** Emily Oliphant, Veda Mantena, Madison Brod, G. Jeffrey Snyder, Wenhao Sun

arXiv:2404.05634v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: It is difficult to intuit how electronic structure features$-$such as band gap magnitude, location of band extrema, effective masses, etc.$-$arise from the underlying crystal chemistry of a material. Here we present a strategy to distill sparse and chemically-interpretable tight-binding models from density functional theory calculations, enabling us to interpret how multiple orbital interactions in a 3D crystal conspire to shape the overall band structure. Applying this process to silicon, we show that its indirect gap arises from a competition between first and second nearest-neighbor bonds$-$where second nearest-neighbor interactions pull the conduction band down from $\Gamma$ to $X$ in a cosine shape, but the first nearest-neighbor bonds push the band up near $X$, resulting in the characteristic dip of the silicon conduction band. By identifying the essential orbital interactions that shape the conduction band, we can further rationally tune bond strengths to morph the silicon band structure into the germanium band structure. Our computational approach serves as a general framework to extract the crystal chemistry origins of electronic structure features from density functional theory calculations, enabling a new paradigm of bonding-by-design.


---
# Deep thermalization in Gaussian continuous-variable quantum systems

## 高斯连续变量量子系统中的深度热化

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.05470

**Authors:** Chang Liu, Qi Camm Huang, Wen Wei Ho

arXiv:2405.05470v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: We uncover emergent universality arising in the equilibration dynamics of multimode continuous-variable systems. Specifically, we study the ensemble of pure states supported on a small subsystem of a few modes, generated by Gaussian measurements on the remaining modes of a globally pure bosonic Gaussian state. We find that beginning from highly entangled, complex global states, such as random Gaussian states and product squeezed states coupled via a deep array of linear optical elements, the induced ensemble attains a universal form, independent of the choice of measurement basis: it is composed of unsqueezed coherent states whose displacements are distributed normally and isotropically, with variance depending on only the particle-number density of the system. We further show that the emergence of such a universal form is consistent with a generalized maximum entropy principle, which endows the limiting ensemble, which we call the "Gaussian Scrooge distribution", with a special quantum information-theoretic property of having minimal accessible information. Our results represent a conceptual generalization of the recently introduced notion of "deep thermalization" in discrete-variable quantum many-body systems -- a novel form of equilibration going beyond thermalization of local observables -- to the realm of continuous-variable quantum systems. Moreover, it demonstrates how quantum information-theoretic perspectives can unveil new physical phenomena and principles in quantum dynamics and statistical mechanics.


---
# Breakdown of the Quantum Distinction of Regular and Chaotic Classical Dynamics in Dissipative Systems

## 耗散系统中规则和混沌经典动力学的量子区分的分解

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.07616

**Authors:** David Villase\~nor, Lea F. Santos, Pablo Barberis-Blostein

arXiv:2406.07616v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Quantum chaos has recently received increasing attention due to its relationship with experimental and theoretical studies of nonequilibrium quantum dynamics, thermalization, and the scrambling of quantum information. In an isolated system, quantum chaos refers to properties of the spectrum that emerge when the classical counterpart of the system is chaotic. However, despite experimental progress leading to longer coherence times, interactions with an environment can never be neglected, which calls for a definition of quantum chaos in dissipative systems. Advances in this direction were brought by the Grobe-Haake-Sommers (GHS) conjecture, which connects chaos in a dissipative classical system with cubic repulsion of the eigenvalues of the quantum counterpart and regularity with linear level repulsion. Here, we show that the GHS conjecture does not hold for the open Dicke model, which is a spin-boson model of experimental interest. We show that the onset of cubic level repulsion in the open quantum model is not always related with chaotic structures in the classical limit. This result challenges the universality of the GHS conjecture and raises the question of what is the source of spectral correlations in open quantum systems.


---
# Ab Initio studies on strain-dependant thermal transport properties of Graphene

## 石墨烯应变相关热输运性质的从头算研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.17871

**Authors:** Archishman Gupta, Ankit Arora

arXiv:2412.17871v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: In this work, we present a comprehensive investigation of graphene's thermal conductivity using first-principles density functional perturbation theory calculations, with a focus on the phonon and lattice vibrational properties underlying its superior heat transport capabilities. The study highlights the role of phonon frequencies, lifetimes and mode-resolved contributions in determining graphene's thermal performance, emphasizing its high phonon group velocities and long mean free paths that contribute to thermal conductivity exceeding 3000 W/mK at room temperature. The results are compared with other two-dimensional materials like silicene (10 W/mK) and MoS2 (83 W/mK), to underline graphene's advantages in nanoscale applications. Here we report the concept of "velocity-lifetime trade-off" and use it to explain graphene's excellent invariance to high tensile and compressive strains as it exhibits minimal variation in thermal conductivity, making it an ideal material for applications requiring stability in environments with strain variability and deformation. This study establishes graphene as a benchmark material for thermal transport in next-generation 2D channel FET devices and offers a roadmap for its optimization in practical applications.


---
# Advancing Surface Chemistry with Large-Scale Ab-Initio Quantum Many-Body Simulations

## 通过大规模从头开始量子多体模拟推进表面化学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18553

**Authors:** Zigeng Huang, Zhen Guo, Changsu Cao, Hung Q. Pham, Xuelan Wen, George H. Booth, Ji Chen, Dingshun Lv

arXiv:2412.18553v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Predictive simulation of surface chemistry is of paramount importance for progress in fields from catalysis to electrochemistry and clean energy generation. Ab-initio quantum many-body methods should be offering deep insights into these systems at the electronic level, but are limited in their efficacy by their steep computational cost. In this work, we build upon state-of-the-art correlated wavefunctions to reliably converge to the `gold standard' accuracy in quantum chemistry for application to extended surface chemistry. Efficiently harnessing graphics processing unit acceleration along with systematically improvable multiscale resolution techniques, we achieve linear computational scaling up to 392 atoms in size. These large-scale simulations demonstrate the importance of converging to these extended system sizes, achieving a validating handshake between simulations with different boundary conditions for the interaction of water on a graphene surface. We provide a new benchmark for this water-graphene interaction that clarifies the preference for water orientations at the graphene interface. This is extended to the adsorption of carbonaceous molecules on chemically complex surfaces, including metal oxides and metal-organic frameworks, where we consistently achieve chemical accuracy compared to experimental references, and well inside the scatter of traditional density functional material modeling approaches. This pushes the state of the art for simulation of molecular adsorption on surfaces, and marks progress into a post-density functional era for more reliable and improvable approaches to first-principles modeling of surface problems at an unprecedented scale and accuracy using ab-initio quantum many-body methods.


---
# Capturing the elusive curve-crossing in low-lying states of butadiene with dressed TDDFT

## 用修饰的TDDFT捕获丁二烯低洼状态中难以捉摸的曲线交叉

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22286

**Authors:** Davood B. Dar, Neepa T. Maitra

arXiv:2410.22286v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: A striking example of the need to accurately capture states of double-excitation character in molecules is seen in predicting photo-induced dynamics in small polyenes. Due to the coupling of electronic and nuclear motions,the dark 2$^1$Ag state, known to have double-excitation character, can be reached after an initial photo-excitation to the bright $^1$Bu state via crossings of their potential energy surfaces. However, the shapes of the surfaces are so poorly captured by most electronic structure methods, that the crossing is missed or substantially mis-located. We demonstrate that the frequency-dependent kernel of dressed TDDFT beyond Tamm-Dancoff successfully captures the curve-crossing, providing an energy surface close to the highly accurate but more expensive $\delta$-CR-EOMCC(2,3) benchmark reference. This, along with its accurate prediction of the excitation character of the state makes dressed TDDFT a practical and accurate route to electronic structure quantities needed in modeling ultrafast dynamics in molecules.

