# Ultrafast dynamic Coulomb screening of X-ray core excitons in photoexcited semiconductors

## 光激发半导体中x射线核心激子的超快动态库仑筛选

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.01945

arXiv:2412.01945v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Ultrafast X-ray spectroscopy has been revolutionized in recent years due to the advent of fourth-generation X-ray facilities. In solid-state materials, core excitons determine the energy and line shape of absorption features in core-level spectroscopies such as X-ray absorption spectroscopy. The screening of core excitons is an inherent many-body process that can reveal insight into charge-transfer excitations and electronic correlations. Under non-equilibrium conditions such as after photoexcitation, however, core-exciton screening is still not fully understood. Here we demonstrate the dynamic Coulomb screening of core excitons induced by photoexcited carriers by employing X-ray transient absorption (XTA) spectroscopy with picosecond time resolution. Our interpretation is supported by state-of-the-art ab initio theory, combining constrained and real-time time-dependent density functional theory with many-body perturbation theory. Using ZnO as an archetypal wide band-gap semiconductor, we show that the Coulomb screening by photoexcited carriers at the Zn K-edge leads to a decrease in the core-exciton binding energy, which depends nonlinearly on both the excitation density and the distribution of photoexcited carriers in reciprocal space. The effect of Coulomb screening dominates over Pauli blocking in the XTA spectra. We show that dynamic core-exciton screening is also observed at other X-ray absorption edges and theoretically predict the effect of core-exciton screening on the femtosecond time scale for the case of ZnO, a major step towards hard X-ray excitonics. The results have implications for the interpretation of ultrafast X-ray spectra in general and their use in tracking charge carrier dynamics in complex materials on atomic length scales.


---
# Susceptibility of entanglement entropy: a universal indicator of quantum criticality

## 纠缠熵的易感性: 量子临界的通用指标

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02236

arXiv:2412.02236v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: A measure of how sensitive the entanglement entropy is in a quantum system, has been proposed and its information geometric origin is discussed. It has been demonstrated for two exactly solvable spin systems, that thermodynamic criticality is directly \textit{indicated} by finite size scaling of the global maxima and turning points of the susceptibility of entanglement entropy through numerical analysis - obtaining power laws. Analytically we have proved those power laws for $| \ \lambda_c(N)-\lambda_c^{\infty}|$ as $N\to \infty$ in the cases of finite 1D transverse field ising model (TFIM) ($\lambda=h$) and XY chain ($\lambda=\gamma$). The integer power law appearing for XY model has been verified using perturbation theory in $\mathcal{O}(\frac{1}{N})$ and the fractional power law appearing in the case of TFIM, is verified by an exact approach involving Chebyshev polynomials, hypergeometric functions and complete elliptic integrals. Furthermore a set of potential applications of this quantity under quantum dynamics and also for non-integrable systems, are briefly discussed. The simplicity of this setup for understanding quantum criticality is emphasized as it takes in only the reduced density matrix of appropriate rank.


---
# A unified framework of unitarily residual measures for quantifying dissipation

## 用于量化耗散的统一残差度量的统一框架

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02231

arXiv:2412.02231v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Open quantum systems are governed by both unitary and non-unitary dynamics, with dissipation arising from the latter. Traditional quantum divergence measures, such as quantum relative entropy, fail to account for the non-unitary oriented dissipation as the divergence is positive even between unitarily connected states. We introduce a framework for quantifying the dissipation by isolating the non-unitary components of quantum dynamics. We define equivalence relations among hermitian operators through unitary transformations and characterize the resulting quotient set. By establishing an isomorphism between this quotient set and a set of real vectors with ordered components, we induce divergence measures that are invariant under unitary evolution, which we refer to as the unitarily residual measures. These unitarily residual measures inherit properties such as monotonicity and convexity and, in certain cases, correspond to classical information divergences between sorted eigenvalue distributions. Our results provide a powerful tool for quantifying dissipation in open quantum systems, advancing the understanding of quantum thermodynamics.


---
# Non-equilibrium carrier dynamics and band structure of graphene on 2D tin

## 二维tin上石墨烯的非平衡载流子动力学和能带结构

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.01075

arXiv:2405.01075v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Intercalation of epitaxial graphene on SiC(0001) with Sn results in a well-ordered Sn $(1\times1)$ structure on the SiC surface with quasi-freestanding graphene on top. While the electronic properties of the individual layers have been studied in the past, emerging phenomena arising from possible inter-layer interactions between the 2D\,Sn layer and graphene remain unexplored. We use time- and angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy to reveal a surprisingly short-lived non-equilibrium carrier distribution inside the Dirac cone of Sn-intercalated graphene. Further, we find that the graphene $\pi$-band exhibits a transient increase in binding energy that we attribute to charging of the graphene layer with holes. We interpret our results with support from density functional theory calculations of the graphene - 2D\,Sn heterostructure that reveal a substantial hybridization between the graphene $\pi$-bands and Sn states, providing a channel for efficient ultrafast charge transfer between the layers. Our results on the graphene - 2D\,Sn model system are expected to trigger similar investigations on related heterostructures obtained by intercalation of epitaxial graphene. Regarding the huge choice of materials that have been successfully intercalated in the past, we believe that the interlayer interactions revealed in the present work only represent the tip of the iceberg with many fascinating emerging phenomena to be discovered in the near future.


---
# Fundamentals on Dependence of Volume on Pressure and Temperature

## 体积对压力和温度依赖性的基本原理

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.15963

arXiv:2408.15963v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: The common wisdom that volume decreases with pressure and increases with temperature is analyzed in terms of Hillert nonequilibrium thermodynamics in the present work. It is shown that the derivative of volume to pressure in a stable system is always negative, i.e., volume decreases with the increase of pressure, when all other natural variables of the system are kept constant. This originates from the stability requirement that the conjugate variables, such as volume and negative pressure, must change in the same direction in a stable system. Consequently, since volume and temperature are not conjugate variables, they do not have to change in the same direction and thus do change in opposite directions in both natural and man-made systems. It is shown that the decrease of volume with the increase of temperature, commonly referred as negative thermal expansion (NTE) in the literature, originates from the statistical competitions of configurations in the system when the volumes of metastable configurations are smaller than that of the ground-state configuration. It is demonstrated that the zentropy theory can concisely explain and accurately predict NTE based on the density functional theory without fitting parameters.


---
# Theory of the divacancy in 4H-SiC: Impact of Jahn-Teller effect on optical properties

## 4H-SiC的双空位理论: jahn-teller效应对光学性质的影响

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.01390

arXiv:2412.01390v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Understanding the optical properties of color centers in silicon carbide is essential for their use in quantum technologies, such as single-photon emission and spin-based qubits. In this work, first-principles calculations were employed using the r2SCAN density functional to investigate the electronic and vibrational properties of neutral divacancy configurations in 4H-SiC. Our approach addresses the dynamical Jahn-Teller effect in the excited states of axial divacancies. By explicitly solving the multimode dynamical Jahn-Teller problem, we compute emission and absorption lineshapes for axial divacancy configurations, providing insights into the complex interplay between electronic and vibrational degrees of freedom. The results show strong alignment with experimental data, underscoring the predictive power of the methodologies. Our calculations predict spontaneous symmetry breaking due to the pseudo Jahn-Teller effect in the excited state of the $kh$ divacancy, accompanied by the lowest electron-phonon coupling among the four configurations and distinct polarizability. These unique properties facilitate its selective excitation, setting it apart from other divacancy configurations, and highlight its potential utility in quantum technology applications. These findings underscore the critical role of electron-phonon interactions and optical properties in spin defects with pronounced Jahn-Teller effects, offering valuable insights for the design and integration of quantum emitters for quantum technologies.


---
# Self-optimizing Cobalt Tungsten Oxide Electrocatalysts toward Enhanced Oxygen Evolution in Alkaline Media

## 自优化钴钨氧化物电催化剂以增强碱性介质中的氧气析出

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-vkd9h?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Self-optimizing mixed metal oxides are a novel class of electrocatalysts for the advanced oxygen evolution reaction (OER). Here, we report the self-assembled cobalt and tungsten oxide nanostructures on the lab-synthesized copper oxide substrate via a one-step deposition approach. The resulting composite demonstrates remarkable self-optimization, achieving significantly reduced overpotentials and enhanced current densities. Mechanistic investigations reveal the origins of the boosted OER performance, highlighting substantial enhancements in OER kinetics, the electrocatalytically active surface area, surface wettability, and electrical conductivity. Interfacial restructuring of the electrocatalyst under operating conditions indicates the in situ formation of oxidized cobalt species as true active sites. Complementary density functional theory (DFT) analysis demonstrates the formation of *OOH as the rate-determining step of OER, and elucidates the self-activation mechanism originating from the adaptation of adsorbed oxygen intermediates binding site from tungsten to cobalt. Our study provides a fundamental understanding of the self-optimization mechanism and advances the knowledge-driven design of efficient water-splitting electrocatalysts.


---
# Addressing anharmonic effects with density-fitted multicomponent density functional theory

## 用密度拟合的多组分密度泛函理论解决非调和效应

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-dcnx6?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

In this contribution we present a new density-fitted multicomponent density functional theory implementation and assess its use for the calculation of anharmonic zero-point energies. Four challenging cases of molecular aggregates are reviewed: deprotonated formic acid trimer, diphenyl ether-tert-butyl alcohol conformers, anisole/methanol and anisole/2-naphtol dimers. These are all cases where a mismatch between the low-temperature computationally predicted minimum and the experimentally determined structure was observed. Through the use of nuclear-electronic orbital energies in the thermodynamic correction, the correct energetic ordering is recovered. For the smallest system, we compare our results to vibrational perturbation theory anharmonically corrected zero-point energy, with perfect agreement for the lower-lying conformers. The performance of the newly developed code and the density fitting errors are also analysed. Overall, the new implementation shows a very good scaling with system size and the density fitting approximations exhibit a negligible impact.

