# Multi-target quantum compilation algorithm

## 多目标量子编译算法

Link: http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2632-2153/ad9705

Quantum compilation is the process of converting a target unitary operation into a trainable unitary represented by a quantum circuit. It has a wide range of applications, including gate optimization, quantum-assisted compiling, quantum state preparation, and quantum dynamic simulation. Traditional quantum compilation usually optimizes circuits for a single target. However, many quantum systems require simultaneous optimization of multiple targets, such as thermal state preparation, time-dependent dynamic simulation, and others. To address this, we develop a multi-target quantum compilation algorithm to improve the performance and flexibility of simulating multiple quantum systems. Our benchmarks and case studies demonstrate the effectiveness of the algorithm, highlighting the importance of multi-target optimization in advancing quantum computing. This work lays the groundwork for further development and evaluation of multi-target quantum compilation algorithms.


---
# Fast and stable tight-binding framework for nonlocal kinetic energy density functional reconstruction in orbital-free density functional calculations

## 无轨道密度泛函计算中非局部动能密度泛函重构的快速稳定紧束缚框架

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02959

arXiv:2412.02959v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Nonlocal kinetic energy density functionals (KEDFs) with density-dependent kernels are currently the most accurate functionals available for orbital-free density functional theory (OF-DFT) calculations. However, despite advances in numerical techniques and using only (semi)local density-dependent kernels, nonlocal KEDFs still present substantial computational costs in OF-DFT, limiting their application in large-scale material simulations. To address this challenge, we propose an efficient framework for reconstructing nonlocal KEDFs by incorporating the density functional tight-binding approach, in which the energy functionals are simplified through a first-order functional expansion based on the superposition of free-atom electron densities. This strategy allows the computationally expensive nonlocal kinetic energy and potential calculations to be performed only once during the electron density optimization process, significantly reducing computational overhead while maintaining high accuracy. Benchmark tests using advanced nonlocal KEDFs, such as revHC and LDAK-MGPA, on standard structures including Li, Mg, Al, Ga, Si, III-V semiconductors, as well as Mg$_{50}$ and Si$_{50}$ clusters, demonstrate that our method achieves orders-of-magnitude improvements in efficiency, providing a cost-effective balance between accuracy and computational speed. Additionally, the reconstructed functionals exhibit improved numerical stability for both bulk and finite systems, paving the way for developing more sophisticated KEDFs for realistic material simulations using OF-DFT.


---
# Efficient Spin Transfer in WTe2/Fe3GeTe2 van der Waals Heterostructure Enabled by Direct Interlayer p-Orbital Hybridization

## 通过直接层间p轨道杂交实现WTe2/Fe3GeTe2范德华异质结构中的有效自旋转移

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02966

arXiv:2412.02966v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Recent experiments have demonstrated efficient spin transfer across layers in the van der Waals heterostructure composed of WTe2 and Fe3GeTe2, signaling a potential breakthrough in developing all-van der Waals spin-orbit torque devices. However, the reasons behind the unusually high interlayer spin transparency observed, despite the weak van der Waals interactions between layers, remain unclear. In this study, we employ density functional theory and the non-equilibrium Green's function method to explore this phenomenon. We find that the efficient cross-layer spin transfer arises from direct hybridization of p-orbitals between tellurium atoms at the interface. This interlayer orbital hybridization lowers the electronic potential barrier and significantly modifies the spin-polarized electronic structure of Fe3GeTe2. Consequently, an effective channel for spin-polarized transport is established between WTe2 and Fe3GeTe2, leading to high interlayer spin transparency. Combining this enhanced spin transparency with the large spin Hall angle of WTe2 explains the high spin-orbit torque efficiency observed experimentally. Furthermore, we predict that applying a gate voltage can further increase this efficiency. Our findings offer a pathway for designing high-performance, all-van der Waals spin-orbit torque devices.


---
# Mapping delocalization of impurity bands across archetypal Mott-Anderson transition

## 跨原型mott-anderson过渡的杂质带的映射离域

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.03147

arXiv:2412.03147v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Tailoring charge transport in solids on demand is the overarching goal of condensed-matter research as it is crucial for electronic applications. Yet, often the proper tuning knob is missing and extrinsic factors such as impurities and disorder impede coherent conduction. Here we control the very buildup of an electronic band from impurity states within the pseudogap of ternary Fe$_{2-x}$V$_{1+x}$Al Heusler compounds via reducing the Fe content. Our density functional theory calculations combined with specific heat and electrical resistivity experiments reveal that, initially, these states are Andersonlocalized at low V concentrations $0 < x < 0.1$. As x increases, we monitor the formation of mobility edges upon the archetypal Mott-Anderson transition and map the increasing bandwidth of conducting states by thermoelectric measurements. Ultimately, delocalization of charge carriers in fully disordered V$_3$Al results in a resistivity exactly at the Mott-Ioffe-Regel limit that is perfectly temperature-independent up to 700 K - more constant than constantan.


---
# Persistent Spin Textures in Nonpolar Chiral Systems

## 非极性手性系统中的持续自旋织构

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.03229

arXiv:2412.03229v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: In this paper, we have proposed a novel route for the realisation of persistent spin texture (PST). We have shown from symmetry considerations that in non-polar chiral systems, bands with specific orbital characters around a high symmetry point with $D_{2}$ little group may admit a single spin dependent term in the low energy $\bf{k.p}$ model Hamiltonian that naturally leads to PST. Considering a $2D$ plane in the Brillouin zone (BZ), we have further argued that in such chiral systems the PST is transpired due to the comparable strengths of the Dresselhaus and Weyl (radial) interaction parameters where the presence of these two terms are allowed by the $D{_2}$ symmetry. Finally using first principles density functional theory (DFT) calculations we have identified that the non-polar chiral compounds Y$_3$TaO$_7$ and AsBr$_3$ displays PST for the conduction band and valence band respectively around the $\Gamma$ point having $D{_2}$ little group and predominantly Ta-$d_{xz}$ orbital character for Y$_3$TaO$_7$ and Br-$p{_x}$ orbital character for AsBr$_3$ corroborating our general strategy. Our results for the realisation of PST in non-polar chiral systems thereby broaden the class of materials displaying PST that can be employed for application in spin-orbitronics.


---
# The morphology and interface structure of titanium on graphene

## 钛在石墨烯上的形貌和界面结构

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.03480

arXiv:2412.03480v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Titanium (Ti) is an adhesion and contact metal commonly used in nanoelectronics and two-dimensional (2D) materials research. However, when Ti is deposited on graphene (Gr), we obtain dramatically different film morphology depending on the experimental conditions. Through a combination of transmission electron microscopy, Raman spectroscopy, and ab initio density functional theory calculations, we show that the most critical parameters are the number of Gr layers, the nature of the Gr support, and the deposition temperature. Particularly distinctive is the island morphology and large defect density of Ti on monolayer Gr, compared to bilayer or thicker Gr. We propose that this results from structural and mechanical differences between monolayer and thicker Gr flakes, where monolayer Gr is more flexible, exhibits larger surface roughness and therefore lower Ti diffusivity, and is more easily damaged. Our results highlight the extreme sensitivity of Ti morphology on Gr to processing and substrate conditions, allowing us to propose design rules for controlling Ti-Gr interface properties and morphology and to discuss the implications for other technologically relevant metal deposition processes.


---
# Time-dependent nuclear energy-density functional theory toolkit for neutron star crust: Dynamics of a nucleus in a neutron superfluid

## 中子星壳的时变核能密度泛函理论工具包: 中子超流体中核的动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17499

arXiv:2403.17499v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: We present a new numerical tool designed to probe the dense layers of neutron star crusts. It is based on the time-dependent Hartree-Fock-Bogoliubov theory with generalized Skyrme nuclear energy-density functionals of the Brussels-Montreal family. We use it to study the time evolution of a nucleus accelerating through superfluid neutron medium in the inner crust of a neutron star. We extract an effective mass in the low velocity limit. We observe a threshold velocity and specify mechanisms of dissipation: phonon emission, Cooper pairs breaking, and vortex rings creation. These microscopic effects are of key importance for understanding various neutron star phenomena. Moreover, the mechanisms we describe are general and apply also to other fermionic superfluids interacting with obstacles like liquid helium or ultracold gases.


---
# Space-time correlations in monitored kinetically constrained discrete-time quantum dynamics

## 受动力学约束的离散时间量子动力学中的时空相关性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.09872

arXiv:2408.09872v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: State-of-the-art quantum simulators permit local temporal control of interactions and midcircuit readout. These capabilities open the way towards the exploration of intriguing nonequilibrium phenomena. We illustrate this with a kinetically constrained many-body quantum system that has a natural implementation on Rydberg quantum simulators. The evolution proceeds in discrete time and is generated by repeatedly entangling the system with an auxiliary environment that is monitored and reset after each time-step. Despite featuring an uncorrelated infinite-temperature average stationary state, the dynamics displays coexistence of fast and slow space-time regions in stochastic realizations of the system state. The time-record of measurement outcomes on the environment serves as natural probe for such dynamical heterogeneity, which we characterize using tools from large deviation theory. Our work establishes the large deviation framework for discrete-time open quantum many-body systems as a means to characterize complex dynamics and collective phenomena in quantum processors and simulators.


---
# Hands-On Quantum: Teaching Core Quantum Concepts With Bloch Cubes

## 动手量子: 使用Bloch立方体教授核心量子概念

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.03003

arXiv:2412.03003v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Quantum mechanics is a notoriously abstract subject, and therefore challenging to teach at pre-college and introductory college levels. Here we introduce the Bloch Cube, a hands-on educational tool which can illustrate key quantum concepts without equations. A series of videos have been created showing how Bloch Cubes can be used to teach concepts such as quantum measurement, quantum dynamics, pure states versus mixed states, and quantum decoherence. Bloch Cube states can assist in the development of more sophisticated concepts such as the Bloch Sphere, which plays a central role in the quantum mechanics of two-state systems and quantum information science.


---
# Wavepacket and Reduced-Density Approaches for High-Dimensional Quantum Dynamics: Application to the Nonlinear Spectroscopy of Asymmetrical Light-Harvesting Building Blocks

## 用于高维量子动力学的Wavepacket和降低密度的方法: 在非对称光收集构建块的非线性光谱中的应用

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.03412

arXiv:2412.03412v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Excitation-energy transfer (EET) and relaxation in an optically excited building block of poly(phenylene ethynylene) (PPE) dendrimers are simulated using wavepackets with the multilayer multiconfiguration time-dependent Hartree (ML-MCTDH) method and reduced-density matrices with the hierachical equations of motion (HEOM) approach. The dynamics of the ultrafast electronic funneling between the first two excited electronic states in the asymmetrically meta-substituted PPE oligomer with two rings on one branch and three rings on the other side, with a shared ring in between, is treated with 93-dimensional ab initio vibronic-coupling Hamiltonian (VCH) models, either linear or with bilinear and quadratic terms. The linear VCH model is also used to model an open quantum system. The linear-response absorption and emission spectra are simulated with both the ML-MCTDH and HEOM methods. The latter is further used to explore the nonlinear response regime and the expected EET fingerprint in the time-resolved transient absorption (TA) spectra and excited stimulated emission (ESE) with delta-like impulsive laser pulses.


---
# Fast and stable tight-binding framework for nonlocal kinetic energy density functional reconstruction in orbital-free density functional calculations

## 无轨道密度泛函计算中非局部动能密度泛函重构的快速稳定紧束缚框架

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02959

arXiv:2412.02959v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Nonlocal kinetic energy density functionals (KEDFs) with density-dependent kernels are currently the most accurate functionals available for orbital-free density functional theory (OF-DFT) calculations. However, despite advances in numerical techniques and using only (semi)local density-dependent kernels, nonlocal KEDFs still present substantial computational costs in OF-DFT, limiting their application in large-scale material simulations. To address this challenge, we propose an efficient framework for reconstructing nonlocal KEDFs by incorporating the density functional tight-binding approach, in which the energy functionals are simplified through a first-order functional expansion based on the superposition of free-atom electron densities. This strategy allows the computationally expensive nonlocal kinetic energy and potential calculations to be performed only once during the electron density optimization process, significantly reducing computational overhead while maintaining high accuracy. Benchmark tests using advanced nonlocal KEDFs, such as revHC and LDAK-MGPA, on standard structures including Li, Mg, Al, Ga, Si, III-V semiconductors, as well as Mg$_{50}$ and Si$_{50}$ clusters, demonstrate that our method achieves orders-of-magnitude improvements in efficiency, providing a cost-effective balance between accuracy and computational speed. Additionally, the reconstructed functionals exhibit improved numerical stability for both bulk and finite systems, paving the way for developing more sophisticated KEDFs for realistic material simulations using OF-DFT.


---
# Incorporating Memory into Propagation of 1-Electron Reduced Density Matrices

## 将内存纳入1电子简化密度矩阵的传播中

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15596

arXiv:2403.15596v4 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: For any linear system with unreduced dynamics governed by invertible propagators, we derive a closed, time-delayed, linear system for a reduced-dimensional quantity of interest. This method does not target dimensionality reduction: rather, this method helps shed light on the memory-dependence of $1$-electron reduced density matrices in time-dependent configuration interaction (TDCI), a scheme to solve for the correlated dynamics of electrons in molecules. Though time-dependent density functional theory has established that the $1$-electron reduced density possesses memory-dependence, the precise nature of this memory-dependence has not been understood. We derive a symmetry/constraint-preserving method to propagate reduced TDCI electron density matrices. In numerical tests on two model systems ($\text{H}_2$ and $\text{HeH}^+$), we show that with sufficiently large time-delay (or memory-dependence), our method propagates reduced TDCI density matrices with high quantitative accuracy. We study the dependence of our results on time step and basis set. To implement our method, we derive the $4$-index tensor that relates reduced and full TDCI density matrices. Our derivation applies to any TDCI system, regardless of basis set, number of electrons, or choice of Slater determinants in the wave function.

