# Designing $s{p}^{2}$ and $s{p}^{3}$ hybridized carbon allotrope and related B-doped phases

## 设计 $ s{p }^{ 2}$ 和 $ s{p }^{ 3}$ 杂化碳同素异形体及相关的B掺杂相

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevMaterials.8.124001

Author(s): Reo Kita, Masayuki Toyoda, and Susumu Saito<br /><p>We propose an $s{p}^{2}$ and $s{p}^{3}$ hybridized carbon allotropes based on the allotropes previously considered (C20-sc, C21-sc, and C22-sc) and investigate physical properties of these allotropes in the framework of the density functional theory. The new allotrope named “C21-${\mathrm{sc}}^{′}$”…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. Materials 8, 124001] Published Mon Dec 02, 2024


---
# Two-dimensional electronic spectroscopy of organic semiconductor nanostructures

## 有机半导体纳米结构的二维电子光谱

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18643

arXiv:2411.18643v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: This chapter discusses recent experimental work exploring the optical properties and quantum dynamics of organic semiconductor nanostructures based on squaraine dyes. Squaraines are prototypical quadrupolar charge-transfer chromophores of interest for solu-tion-processed photovoltaics and as aggregates with large circular dichroism. Here, we demonstrate and exploit their unique properties as quantum emitters for implementing hy-brid nanostructures featuring strong exciton-plasmon couplings. We show that the unusual electronic properties of squaraines result in a substantial reduction of vibronic coupling to the ubiquitous high-frequency C-C-bond-stretching modes of organic materials and in the formation of spectrally narrow J-aggregated exciton resonances in squaraine thin films. This is exploited to create metallic nanostructures covered with squaraine thin films and to per-form the first time-domain study of coherent exciton-plasmon couplings using two-dimensional electronic spectroscopy with 10-fs time resolution. The experiments present unexpected evidence for long-range coherent exciton transport driven by plasmonic fields. This opens up new opportunities for manipulating the coherent transport of matter excita-tions by coupling to vacuum fields.


---
# Precision benchmarks for solids: G0W0 calculations with different basis sets

## 实体的精度基准: 具有不同基础集的G0W0计算

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.19701

arXiv:2411.19701v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The GW approximation within many-body perturbation theory is the state of the art for computing quasiparticle energies in solids. Typically, Kohn-Sham (KS) eigenvalues and eigenfunctions, obtained from a Density Functional Theory (DFT) calculation are used as a starting point to build the Green's function G and the screened Coulomb interaction W, yielding the one-shot G0W0 selfenergy if no further update of these quantities are made. Multiple implementations exist for both the DFT and the subsequent G0W0 calculation, leading to possible differences in quasiparticle energies. In the present work, the G0W0 quasiparticle energies for states close to the band gap are calculated for six crystalline solids, using four different codes: Abinit, exciting, FHI-aims, and GPAW. This comparison helps to assess the impact of basis-set types (planewaves versus localized orbitals) and the treatment of core and valence electrons (all-electron full potentials versus pseudopotentials). The impact of unoccupied states as well as the algorithms for solving the quasiparticle equation are also briefly discussed. For the KS-DFT band gaps, we observe good agreement between all codes, with differences not exceeding 0.1 eV, while the G0W0 results deviate on the order of 0.1-0.3 eV. Between all-electron codes (FHI-aims and exciting), the agreement is better than 15 meV for KS-DFT and, with one exception, about 0.1 eV for G0W0 band gaps.


---
# Room Temperature Hydrogen Atom Scattering Experiments Are Not a Sufficient Benchmark to Validate Electronic Friction Theory

## 室温氢原子散射实验不是验证电子摩擦理论的充分基准

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.12949

arXiv:2408.12949v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: In the dynamics of atoms and molecules at metal surfaces, electron-hole pair excitations can play a crucial role. In the case of hyperthermal hydrogen atom scattering, they lead to nonadiabatic energy loss and highly inelastic scattering. Molecular dynamics with electronic friction simulations where friction is computed under an isotropic homogeneous electron gas approximation have previously shown good agreement with measured kinetic energy loss distributions, suggesting that this level of theoretical description is sufficient to describe nonadiabatic effects of atomic scattering. In this work, we show that similar agreement with room temperature experiments can also be achieved with friction derived from density functional theory linear response calculations. The apparent agreement of the homogeneous electron gas approximation with experiment arises from a fortuitous cancellation of errors where friction is overestimated close to the surface and the spin transition is neglected. Only for scattering at low temperatures can both approximations be distinguished and differences rationalised in terms of the number of bounces of the atom on the surface. We identify the signatures of nonadiabatic energy loss of different levels of theory, which future low-temperature scattering experiments will be able to measure.


---
# AI-driven inverse design of materials: Past, present and future

## 人工智能驱动的材料逆向设计: 过去、现在和未来

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.09429

arXiv:2411.09429v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: The discovery of advanced materials is the cornerstone of human technological development and progress. The structures of materials and their corresponding properties are essentially the result of a complex interplay of multiple degrees of freedom such as lattice, charge, spin, symmetry, and topology. This poses significant challenges for the inverse design methods of materials. Humans have long explored new materials through a large number of experiments and proposed corresponding theoretical systems to predict new material properties and structures. With the improvement of computational power, researchers have gradually developed various electronic structure calculation methods, such as the density functional theory and high-throughput computational methods. Recently, the rapid development of artificial intelligence technology in the field of computer science has enabled the effective characterization of the implicit association between material properties and structures, thus opening up an efficient paradigm for the inverse design of functional materials. A significant progress has been made in inverse design of materials based on generative and discriminative models, attracting widespread attention from researchers. Considering this rapid technological progress, in this survey, we look back on the latest advancements in AI-driven inverse design of materials by introducing the background, key findings, and mainstream technological development routes. In addition, we summarize the remaining issues for future directions. This survey provides the latest overview of AI-driven inverse design of materials, which can serve as a useful resource for researchers.


---
# The classical-quantum limit

## 经典量子极限

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.18271

arXiv:2310.18271v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: The standard notion of a classical limit, represented schematically by $\hbar\rightarrow 0$, provides a method for approximating a quantum system by a classical one. In this work we explain why the standard classical limit fails when applied to subsystems, and show how one may resolve this by explicitly modelling the decoherence of a subsystem by its environment. Denoting the decoherence time $\tau$, we demonstrate that a double scaling limit in which $\hbar \rightarrow 0$ and $\tau \rightarrow 0$ such that the ratio $E_f =\hbar /\tau$ remains fixed leads to an irreversible open-system evolution with well-defined classical and quantum subsystems. The main technical result is showing that, for arbitrary Hamiltonians, the generators of partial versions of the Wigner, Husimi and Glauber-Sudarshan quasiprobability distributions may all be mapped in the above double scaling limit to the same completely-positive classical-quantum generator. This provides a regime in which one can study effective and consistent classical-quantum dynamics.


---
# Room Temperature Hydrogen Atom Scattering Experiments Are Not a Sufficient Benchmark to Validate Electronic Friction Theory

## 室温氢原子散射实验不是验证电子摩擦理论的充分基准

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.12949

arXiv:2408.12949v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: In the dynamics of atoms and molecules at metal surfaces, electron-hole pair excitations can play a crucial role. In the case of hyperthermal hydrogen atom scattering, they lead to nonadiabatic energy loss and highly inelastic scattering. Molecular dynamics with electronic friction simulations where friction is computed under an isotropic homogeneous electron gas approximation have previously shown good agreement with measured kinetic energy loss distributions, suggesting that this level of theoretical description is sufficient to describe nonadiabatic effects of atomic scattering. In this work, we show that similar agreement with room temperature experiments can also be achieved with friction derived from density functional theory linear response calculations. The apparent agreement of the homogeneous electron gas approximation with experiment arises from a fortuitous cancellation of errors where friction is overestimated close to the surface and the spin transition is neglected. Only for scattering at low temperatures can both approximations be distinguished and differences rationalised in terms of the number of bounces of the atom on the surface. We identify the signatures of nonadiabatic energy loss of different levels of theory, which future low-temperature scattering experiments will be able to measure.


---
# Computational design of synthetic fluorescent nucleotides: tuning electron transfer and fluorescence competition with functionalization location of perylene tag

## 合成荧光核苷酸的计算设计: 通过perylene标签的功能化定位来调节电子转移和荧光竞争

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-lp5c0?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Synthetic fluorescent nucleotides (SFNs) have a wide variety of applications in biochemical tracking, imaging, and diagnostic assays. There are many SFNs in active development to enhance their fluorescence wavelengths, environmental sensitivity, photostability, and photochemical/photoswitchable properties. However, there are few systematic theoretical studies of their fluorescence properties. In this work, we apply excited state QM/MM dynamics with TDDFT to nucleic acids tagged with perylene, which is particularly photostable, fluorescent and bright (fluorescence quantum yield = 0.94) in isolation. We probe the importance of geometry, dynamics, and functionalization location of the perylene tag on the nucleobase. We confirm charge transfer pathways consistent with previous experiments within our 2 ps timescale, and note that the directionality of the electron transfer stems primarily from the nucleic acid type. Additionally, we find that the functionalization point on specific nucleobases, along with key dihedral angles and orbital overlap, directly influences the probability of charge transfer and thus the final SFN fluorescence properties.


---
# Comparative study of the Catalytic Activity of Gold and Copper nanoclusters on Benzyl Alcohol oxidation to Benzaldehyde using Density Functional Theory

## 金、铜纳米簇对苯甲醇氧化制苯甲醛催化活性的密度泛函理论比较研究

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-170bd?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Density functional theory comparison of the role of Au and Cu on the catalysis of aerobic oxidation of benzyl alcohol to benzaldehyde was performed. Four metal clusters were analyzed, namely pure Au13 and Cu13 and doped Au12 Cu and Cu12 Au clusters. This study focuses on the previously reported minimum energy pathway for oxidizing two molecules of benzyl alcohol per adsorbed O2 . The reaction energy pathway diverges at the benzylic H abstraction step. For catalysts rich in Au, dissociation of O-O dissociation before this step is not required, conversely for Cu rich catalysts, O-O dissociation occurs prior to benzylic H abstraction step. The first transition state for the abstraction of alcoholic hydrogen by O2 presents a minimal energy barrier on the Au13 catalyst, while it is absent on the other three catalysts. The calculations exhibit that the reaction rate is primarily influenced by the adsorption of reactants and desorption of products, aligning with experimental findings. In Cu rich clusters, the adsorption of O2 is more favorable due to effective charge transfer between the cluster and O2 resulting in high adsorption energy. Additionally, the desorption of products is significantly endothermic on Cu rich catalysts, whereas it is exothermic on Au rich catalysts.

