# Extended Time-Dependent Density Functional Theory for Multibody Densities

## 多体密度的扩展时间相关密度泛函理论

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevLett.133.263001

**Authors:** Jiong-Hang Liang, Tian-Xing Hu, D. Wu, Zheng-Mao Sheng, and J. Zhang

Author(s): Jiong-Hang Liang, Tian-Xing Hu, D. Wu, Zheng-Mao Sheng, and J. Zhang<br /><p>Time-dependent density functional theory (TDDFT) is widely used for understanding and predicting properties and behaviors of matter. As one of the fundamental theorems in TDDFT, Van Leeuwen theorem [<a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.82.3863"><span>Phys. Rev. Lett.</span> <b>82</b>, 3863 (1999)</a>] guarantees how to construct a unique potential with the same one-bo…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. Lett. 133, 263001] Published Mon Dec 23, 2024


---
# Surface Modification and Subsequent Fermi Density Enhancement of Bi(111)

## Bi(111) 的表面改性和随后的费米密度增强

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.15313

**Authors:** Kuanysh Zhussupbekov, Killian Walshe, Brian Walls, Andrei Ionov, Sergei I. Bozhko, Andrei Ksenz, Rais N. Mozhchil, Ainur Zhussupbekova, Karsten Fleischer, Samuel Berman, Ivan Zhilyaev, David D. O'Regan, Igor V. Shvets

arXiv:2412.15313v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Defects introduced to the surface of Bi(111) break the translational symmetry and modify the surface states locally. We present a theoretical and experimental study of the 2D defects on the surface of Bi(111) and the states that they induce. Bi crystals cleaved in ultrahigh vacuum (UHV) at low temperature (110 K) and the resulting ion-etched surface are investigated by low-energy electron diffraction (LEED), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy (UPS), and scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) as well as spectroscopy (STS) techniques in combination with density functional theory (DFT) calculations. STS measurements of cleaved Bi(111) reveal that a commonly observed bilayer step edge has a lower density of states (DOS) around the Fermi level as compared to the atomic-flat terrace. Following ion bombardment, the Bi(111) surface reveals anomalous behavior at both 110 and 300 K: Surface periodicity is observed by LEED, and a significant increase in the number of bilayer step edges and energetically unfavorable monolayer steps is observed by STM. It is suggested that the newly exposed monolayer steps and the type A bilayer step edges result in an increase to the surface Fermi density as evidenced by UPS measurements and the Kohn-Sham DOS. These states appear to be thermodynamically stable under UHV conditions.


---
# Theoretical Prediction of High-Temperature Superconductivity in SrAuH$_3$ at Ambient Pressure

## 环境压力下SrAuH $_3 $ 高温超导的理论预测

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.15488

**Authors:** Bin Li, Cong Zhu, Junjie Zhai, Chuanhui Yin, Yuxiang Fan, Jie Cheng, Shengli Liu, Zhixiang Shi

arXiv:2412.15488v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We present a comprehensive computational investigation of electron-phonon interactions in MXH$_3$ hydride compounds, where $M$ represents alkali and post-transition metals, and $X$ denotes 3$d$, 4$d$, and 5$d$ transition metals. Our density functional theory calculations identify 17 dynamically stable compounds. Notably, SrAuH$_3$ and SrZnH$_3$ emerge as theoretical ambient-pressure superconductors with predicted critical temperatures ($T_c$) exceeding 100 K. Analysis of the electronic structure reveals that the $X$ component dominates the density of states at the Fermi level, playing a crucial role in determining electron-phonon coupling strength and superconducting properties. We elucidate the underlying mechanisms governing these properties through detailed examination of the electronic and vibrational spectra. Our findings may challenge the prevailing notion that high-$T_c$ superconductivity in hydrides requires extreme pressures, potentially paving the way for practical applications. This study also provides valuable insights to guide future experimental efforts in the synthesis of ambient-pressure hydride superconductors.


---
# Electrically tunable MoSe$_2$/WSe$_2$ heterostructure-based quantum dot

## 基于电调谐MoSe $_2 $/WSe $_2 $ 异质结构的量子点

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.15599

**Authors:** Katarzyna Sadecka, Maciej Bieniek, Paulo E. Faria Junior, Arkadiusz W\'ojs, Pawe{\l} Hawrylak, Jaros{\l}aw Paw{\l}owski

arXiv:2412.15599v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We describe here a theory of a quantum dot in an electrically tunable MoSe$_2$/WSe$_2$ heterostructure. Van der Waals heterostructures allow for tuning their electronic properties beyond their monolayer counterparts. We start by determining their electronic structure using density functional theory. We obtain the type-II band alignment and close in energy conduction band minima (valleys) at the $K$ and $Q$ points in the Brillouin zone. The valence band maxima, also energetically close, are located at the $K$ and $\Gamma$ points. By analyzing the Kohn-Sham wavefunctions, we describe the layer, spin, and orbital contributions. Next, we construct an \textit{ab initio}-based tight-binding model, which helps us to better understand the complexity of the interlayer interactions. We determine the effect of a vertical electric field, showing that vertical gating enables control of valleys extrema and their occupancy. Finally, we employ the tight-binding model to investigate laterally gated quantum dots and analyze the influence of a perpendicular electric field on their energy spectrum. Our results demonstrate that tuning the electric field enables control over the valley character of the quantum dot states, selectively localizing them in either the $K$ or $Q$ valleys, as evidenced by their characteristic degeneracies and wavefunctions.


---
# Multipartite entanglement structure of monitored quantum circuits

## 被监控量子电路的多部分纠缠结构

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16062

**Authors:** Arnau Lira-Solanilla, Xhek Turkeshi, Silvia Pappalardi

arXiv:2412.16062v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Monitored quantum circuits have attracted significant interest as an example of synthetic quantum matter, intrinsically defined by their quantum information content. Here, we propose a multipartite entanglement perspective on monitored phases through the lens of quantum Fisher information. Our findings reveal that unstructured monitored random circuits fail to exhibit divergent multipartite entanglement even at criticality, highlighting their departure from standard quantum critical behavior. However, we demonstrate that genuinely multipartite entangled phases can be realized through two-site measurements, provided a protection mechanism is in place. This work positions multipartite entanglement as a valuable perspective for the study of interacting monitored circuits and broader frameworks of noisy quantum dynamics.


---
# Topology and Spectrum in Measurement-Induced Phase Transitions

## 测量引起的相变中的拓扑和光谱

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11097

**Authors:** Hisanori Oshima, Ken Mochizuki, Ryusuke Hamazaki, Yohei Fuji

arXiv:2412.11097v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Competition among repetitive measurements of noncommuting observables and unitary dynamics can give rise to a rich variety of entanglement phases. We here characterize topological phases in monitored quantum systems by their spectrum and many-body topological invariants. We analyze (1+1)-dimensional monitored circuits for Majorana fermions, which have topological and trivial area-law entangled phases and a critical phase with sub-volume-law entanglement, through the Lyapunov spectrum. We uncover the presence (absence) of edge-localized zero modes inside the bulk gap in the topological (trivial) area-law phase and a bulk gapless spectrum in the critical phase. Furthermore, by suitably exploiting the fermion parity with twisted measurement outcomes at the boundary, we construct a topological invariant that sharply distinguishes the two area-law phases and dynamically characterizes the critical phase. Our work thus paves the way to extend the bulk-edge correspondence for topological phases from equilibrium to monitored quantum dynamics.


---
# Surface Modification and Subsequent Fermi Density Enhancement of Bi(111)

## Bi(111) 的表面改性和随后的费米密度增强

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.15313

**Authors:** Kuanysh Zhussupbekov, Killian Walshe, Brian Walls, Andrei Ionov, Sergei I. Bozhko, Andrei Ksenz, Rais N. Mozhchil, Ainur Zhussupbekova, Karsten Fleischer, Samuel Berman, Ivan Zhilyaev, David D. O'Regan, Igor V. Shvets

arXiv:2412.15313v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Defects introduced to the surface of Bi(111) break the translational symmetry and modify the surface states locally. We present a theoretical and experimental study of the 2D defects on the surface of Bi(111) and the states that they induce. Bi crystals cleaved in ultrahigh vacuum (UHV) at low temperature (110 K) and the resulting ion-etched surface are investigated by low-energy electron diffraction (LEED), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy (UPS), and scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) as well as spectroscopy (STS) techniques in combination with density functional theory (DFT) calculations. STS measurements of cleaved Bi(111) reveal that a commonly observed bilayer step edge has a lower density of states (DOS) around the Fermi level as compared to the atomic-flat terrace. Following ion bombardment, the Bi(111) surface reveals anomalous behavior at both 110 and 300 K: Surface periodicity is observed by LEED, and a significant increase in the number of bilayer step edges and energetically unfavorable monolayer steps is observed by STM. It is suggested that the newly exposed monolayer steps and the type A bilayer step edges result in an increase to the surface Fermi density as evidenced by UPS measurements and the Kohn-Sham DOS. These states appear to be thermodynamically stable under UHV conditions.


---
# Core excitations of uranyl in Cs$_{2}$UO$_{2}$Cl$_{4}$ from relativistic embedded damped-response time-dependent density functional theory calculations

## Cs $_{ 2}$ UO $_{ 2}$ Cl $_{ 4}$ 中铀酰的核心激发来自相对论嵌入阻尼响应时间相关密度泛函理论计算

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.07223

**Authors:** Wilken Aldair Misael, Andr\'e Severo Pereira Gomes

arXiv:2302.07223v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: X-ray spectroscopies, by their high selectivity and sensitivity to the chemical environment around the atoms probed, provide significant insight into the electronic structure of molecules and materials. Interpreting experimental results requires reliable theoretical models, accounting for environment, relativistic, electron correlation, and orbital relaxation effects in a balanced manner. In this work, we present a protocol for the simulation of core excited spectra with damped response time-dependent density functional theory based on the Dirac-Coulomb Hamiltonian (4c-DR-TD-DFT), in which environment effects are accounted for through the frozen density embedding (FDE) method. We showcase this approach for the uranium M$_4$-, L$_3$-edge and oxygen K-edge of uranyl tetrachloride (UO$_2$Cl$_4^{2-}$) unit as found in a host Cs$_{2}$UO$_{2}$Cl$_{4}$ crystal. We have found that the 4c-DR-TD-DFT simulations yield excitation spectra that very closely match the experiment for the uranium M$_4$- and oxygen K-edges, with good agreement for the broad experimental spectra for the L$_3$-edge. By decomposing the complex polarizability in terms of its components we have been able to correlate our results with angle-resolved spectra. We have observed that for all edges, but in particular the uranium M$_4$-edge, an embedded model in which the chloride ligands are replaced by an embedding potential, reproduces rather well the spectral profile obtained for UO$_2$Cl$_4^{2-}$. Our results underscore the importance of the equatorial ligands to simulating core spectra at both uranium and oxygen edges.


---
# Surface state of NiOOH under oxidative conditions: Can dopants induce surface oxidation?

## 氧化条件下NiOOH的表面状态: 掺杂剂会引起表面氧化吗？

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-3c396?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Tony, Ermacora

Nickel oxyhydroxide (NiOOH), featuring redox-active NiIII, is a one of the best non-noble electro- oxidation catalyst in alkaline solution. However, NiOOH is only stable at potentials ≥ 1.5V vs RHE, with Ni(OH)2 being the stable reduced form at lower potentials. The potential of the phase transition from inactive Ni(OH)2 to active NiOOH can be tuned by doping. Lowering the potential for reaching the phase-transition is thought to be beneficial for lowering the overpotential of oxidation reactions catalysed by NiOOH. Here, we investigate which first row transition metals are most plausible for this purpose: First, the doped structure should be more stable than the phase-segregated system and second the potential for reaching the NiOOH-like phase should be lower compared to the pure Ni compound. Substitutional doping of NiOOH is found to be plausible for many dopants, but only V can be incorporated exothermically compared to their pure oxyhydroxides. Furthermore, dopants lead to a substantial lowering in the potential necessary to reach the phase transition. Since catalysis is more a surface than a bulk process, we then investigate the surface state of NiOOH and the impact of substitutional doping on it. To address this question, we apply grand-canonical density functional theory (GC-DFT) in order to explicitly account for the electrochemical potential. We find that the stoichiometric surface (50% hydrogen coverage) is the most stable one over a large range of relevant potentials at pH 14. Oxidizing the surface lowers the hydrogen coverage and occurs at about 1.7 V vs RHE, i.e.,∼0.2 V less positive compared to the potential of the phase transition. At a doping level of 25%, only V and Cr allow to stabilize NiIII at significantly lower potentials compared to pure NiOOH (down to 1.1 V vs RHE) in the bulk. Furthermore, vanadium, chromium and manganese might be suitable choices as these metal centers, which remain in the +III or +IV state at lower potentials compared to Ni, could also act as active sites in electro-oxidation reactions.


---
# Surface Engineering for Enhanced Perovskite Solar Cells: Fullerene-Mediated Trap State Formation on CsPbI3 (001) Surface

## 增强型钙钛矿太阳能电池的表面工程: CsPbI3 (001) 表面上富勒烯介导的陷阱态形成

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-vvh0l-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Sergio, Posada-Pérez

Photovoltaic technology, particularly perovskite solar cell (PSC) materials, has emerged as a promising avenue due to their excellent light-absorbing properties. Despite significant progress in PSC technology, defects within the perovskite material continue to pose challenges, leading to reduced efficiency and stability of the devices. CsPbI3 perovskites have shown potential, but trap states induced by surface defects remain a challenge. The use of fullerene-derivatives, like C60 and PC61BM, has been highlighted to enhance the device stability eliminating/reducing hysteresis and passivating trap states. However, the mechanisms behind fullerene-induced passivation of trap states and their impact on surface energetics remain unclear. This study employs periodic density functional theory (DFT) simulations to explore the interaction between C60, PC61BM, and CsPbI3 (001) surface, with and without defects (cesium vacancy, lead vacancy, and I-antisite). The DFT simulations reveal that both C60 and PC61BM effectively passivate trap states induced by I-antisite defects by reorienting and reorganizing the iodine atoms that promote the presence of trap states. This work contributes to understanding the fundamental aspects of surface-defect interactions in CsPbI3 perovskites. Both C60 and PC61BM play a crucial role in passivating trap states, causing atomic reorganization and avoiding the nonradiative recombination. The findings provide valuable insights into mechanisms for trap state passivation by fullerene derivatives, paving the way for further research to enhance PSC performance.


---
# Imaging of guest molecule adsorption onto 2D covalent organic frameworks by scanning tunneling microscopy

## 通过扫描隧道显微镜对客体分子吸附到2D共价有机框架上的成像

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-s6w35?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Qingchun, Deng

Porous materials play an important role in molecular adsorption and separation. However, understanding the mechanisms of molecular adsorption and separation into the pores remains a challenge. Herein, the adsorption of 1,3,5-tris(4-iodophenyl) benzene (TIPB) molecules onto a 2D covalent organic framework (COF) monolayer is studied by low-temperature scanning tunneling microscopy (LT-STM) and density functional theory (DFT) calculations. The COF monolayers are synthesized via the on-surface Ullmann reaction. The COF films have six types of porous morphology with different pore sizes, namely tetragon, pentagon, hexagon, heptagon, octagon, and nonagon lattices. The adsorption behavior of guest TIPB molecules into the host COF’s pores is in-situ probed by high-resolution LT-STM. Our results reveal that the in-plane adsorption of TIPB molecules is pore-size-dependent and influenced by the interaction with substrate, with tetragon and pentagon lattices showing no molecule adsorption due to their small pore size. Hexagon and heptagon lattices can adsorb one TIPB molecule through I-H bonding, while octagon and nonagon lattices are able to accommodate two TIPB molecules through both I-H & I-I bonding. The substrate affects the in-plane adsorption. After annealing, the adsorbed molecules can form new covalent bonds with the COF lattice, resulting in the pore-size-dependent grafting of TIPB molecules at the COF branched chains. These findings help to understand the pore-size-dependent adsorption mechanisms and the covalent grafting of guest molecules onto 2D COFs.


---
# Tinospora Cordifolia Bioactive Compounds as a Novel Sterol 14a- Demethylase (Cyp51) Inhibitor: an Insilico Study

## Tinospora Cordifolia生物活性化合物作为新型固醇14a-脱甲基酶 (Cyp51) 抑制剂: 一项Insilico研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5167713/latest

Background:
For both endemic and non-endemic areas, Trypanosoma cruzi is the cause of Chagas disease, which can be life-threatening. Oversight: The entire life cycle of T. cruzi relies on the natural production of sterol through the 14-&alpha;-demethylase metabolic pathway. Many of the medications now used to treat Chagas disease have undesirable side effects and are resistant to treatment. Using bioactive chemicals from Tinospora cordifolia, this study attempted to anticipate the inhibitor(s) of sterol 14a-demethylase (cyp51). Utilizing the glide model, a library including one hundred twenty-two (122) compounds from Tinospora cordifoliawas screened against sterol 14-&alpha;-demethylase (cyp51). The e-pharmacophore, pharmacokinetics profile and generalized born surface area (mm-gbsa) in molecular mechanics were performed utilizing four (4) leads and the maestro-schrodinger suite (2022).
Results:
The results indicate that the top four compounds outperform the standard drug (benznidazole). In binding affinity to 14-&alpha;-demethylase, as evidenced by docking scores ranging from -11.397 kcal/mol to -9.539 kcal/mol. Furthermore, the top compounds did not appear to be cytotoxic by ADMET projections. The hit compounds' density functional theory results showed that their Ehomo values ranged from -5.59 eV to -5.80 eV, indicating that the hit molecules are electron donors.
Conclusions:
This study identifies potential Tinospora cordifolia inhibitors with higher binding affinities and provides a detailed description of their interaction with the target protein. Although the results are favorable, further in vivo and in vitro studies are required to confirm these compounds' potential as anti-Chagas agents.

