# Breakdown of the Quantum Distinction of Regular and Chaotic Classical Dynamics in Dissipative Systems

## 耗散系统中规则和混沌经典动力学的量子区分的分解

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevLett.133.240404

**Authors:** David Villaseñor, Lea F. Santos, and Pablo Barberis-Blostein

Author(s): David Villaseñor, Lea F. Santos, and Pablo Barberis-Blostein<br /><p>Quantum chaos has recently received increasing attention due to its relationship with experimental and theoretical studies of nonequilibrium quantum dynamics, thermalization, and the scrambling of quantum information. In an isolated system, quantum chaos refers to properties of the spectrum that eme…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. Lett. 133, 240404] Published Thu Dec 12, 2024


---
# Density functional theory for fractional charge: Locality, size consistency, and exchange-correlation

## 分数电荷的密度泛函理论: 局部性，尺寸一致性和交换相关性

Link: https://pubs.aip.org/aip/jcp/article/161/22/224111/3325321/Density-functional-theory-for-fractional-charge

<span class="paragraphSection">We show that the exact universal density functional of integer electronic charge leads to an extension to fractional charge in an asymptotic sense when it is applied to a system made of asymptotically separated densities. The extended functional is asymptotically local and is said to be <span style="font-style: italic;">i</span>-local. The concept of <span style="font-style: italic;">i</span>-locality is also applicable to nuclear external potentials, and a natural association exists between the localities of a density and a set of nuclei. Applying the functional to a system with nuclei distributed in two asymptotically separated locales requires an explicit search of the electronic charge at each locale with the constraint of the global charge. The determined number of electrons at each locale can be fractional. The molecular size consistency principle is realized as the result of the search. It is physically sensible to extend the molecule concept to include a fractional number of electrons (called fractional molecule henceforth) as a localized observable. The physical validity of fractional molecules is equivalent to the asymptotic separability of molecules, a basic assumption in molecular research. A one-to-one mapping between a fractional molecule’s density and external potential is shown to exist with a nondegenerate condition. The global one-to-one mapping required by the Hohenberg–Kohn first theorem is realized through the aforementioned global search for molecular charges. Furthermore, the well-known piecewise linearity of the universal functional with respect to the number of electrons is necessary for an approximate <span style="font-style: italic;">i</span>-local universal functional to be broadly accurate for any integer number of electrons. The Kohn–Sham (KS) noninteracting kinetic energy functional for a fractional molecule is well-defined and has the same form as that for a system of an integer number of electrons. It is shown to be <span style="font-style: italic;">i</span>-local. A nondegenerate, noninteracting ensemble <span style="font-style: italic;">v</span>-representable fractional density is simultaneously noninteracting wavefunction representable. A constrained search over those representing wavefunctions yields the definition of an exchange–correlation functional pertaining to fractional occupancies of KS orbitals. The functional is shown to be an upper bound to the formal KS exchange–correlation energy of a fractional molecule and includes a strong correlation. It yields the correct result for a well-designed example of effective fractional occupancies in the literature.</span>


---
# DFT Studies on the Effects of Functionalization on the Electronic and Optical Properties of 2,7-di-(N,N-diphenylamino)-9,9-dimethyl-9H-fluorene

## DFT研究官能化对2，7-二-(N，N-二苯基氨基)-9，9-二甲基-9h-芴的电子和光学性质的影响

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-1r6z6?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Benjamin, Parks

Density functional theory (DFT) calculations using B3LYP and 6-311+ G(d,p) basis set were performed to investigate the effect of functionalization on the electronic and optical properties of 2,7-di-(N,N-diphenylamino)-9,9-dimethyl-9H-fluorene (DDF). Four derivatives with various combinations of nitro and methoxy functional groups denoted as DDF2o, DDF2n, DDF4o, and DDF4n, were used in the investigation. Conformational studies of the DDF2n molecule revealed only minute energy differences among conformers in the total energy, HOMO, and LUMO energy, however, the different orientation and dipole moments may affect the device performance. Furthermore, the nitro-modified DDF derivatives have absorption spectra in a region of greater solar photon abundance.  As the LUMO is located to the nitro moieties, often as strong anchoring groups, the nitro-modified DDF molecules could be excellent dye candidates for dye sensitized solar cells and for organic solar cells.


---
# In-silico toxicity analysis for interaction between Organophosphates and Acetyl cholinesterase through molecular level simulation

## 通过分子水平模拟对有机磷酸酯与乙酰胆碱酯酶之间相互作用的计算机毒性分析

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5622034/latest

Organophosphates act as the chief constituents of pesticides and nerve agents, and their toxicological effects have caused harm not just to our environment but to human beings as well. Here, we have observed how interaction of Organophosphates (OPs) with the synaptic enzyme Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) can provide effective insights into studying the biological manifestation of OPs causing human ailments like neurodegenerative diseases. To further analyze how these OP components when bound with functional enzymes in the human body induce neurodegenerative disorders, we present an in-silicoanalysis of the toxicity of Organophosphates (OPs) by their interaction with Acetyl cholinesterase (AChE), the enzyme responsible for regulating neuronal signalling and transmission among muscles and motor nerves. Computational analysis was done using molecular docking and density functional theory (DFT) approaches, where molecular docking simulations helped determine the binding affinity evaluation, interaction sites, and conformations of AChE when docked with OPs. DFT estimations explored molecular mechanisms for OP toxicity, electronic properties and reactivity of OP compounds selectively. Through docking results, relatively strong binding affinities between OPs and AChE was observed which suggested OPs potential interference with the enzyme's function. The molecular dynamics simulations for their interaction provided important insights for the molecular basis of organophosphate toxicity, emphasizing the importance of their interaction with neuronal functioning enzymes. Such computational approach could provide a valuable framework for OP toxicology prediction, along with further analysis for in-vitro and in-vivo experiments.

