# Tunneling magnetoresistance in MgO tunnel junctions with Fe-based leads in empirically corrected density functional theory

## 经验校正的密度泛函理论中具有Fe基引线的MgO隧道结中的隧穿磁阻

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.110.224425

**Authors:** G. G. Baez Flores, M. van Schilfgaarde, and K. D. Belashchenko

Author(s): G. G. Baez Flores, M. van Schilfgaarde, and K. D. Belashchenko<br /><p>The minority-spin Fe/MgO interface states are at the Fermi level in density functional theory (DFT), but experimental evidence and GW calculations place them slightly higher in energy. This small shift can strongly influence tunneling magnetoresistance (TMR) in junctions with a thin MgO barrier and …</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 110, 224425] Published Mon Dec 16, 2024


---
# Anticoncentration and magic spreading under ergodic quantum dynamics

## 遍历量子动力学下的反浓度和魔术传播

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10229

**Authors:** Emanuele Tirrito, Xhek Turkeshi, Piotr Sierant

arXiv:2412.10229v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Quantum state complexity metrics, such as anticoncentration and magic, offer key insights into many-body physics, information scrambling, and quantum computing. Anticoncentration and equilibration of magic under dynamics of random quantum circuits occur at times scaling logarithmically with system size, a prediction that is believed to extend to more general ergodic dynamics. This work challenges this idea by examining the anticoncentration and magic spreading in one-dimensional ergodic Floquet models and Hamiltonian systems. Using participation and stabilizer entropies to probe these resources, we reveal significant differences between the two settings.Floquet systems align with random circuit predictions, exhibiting anticoncentration and saturation of magic at time scales that increase logarithmically with system size. In contrast, Hamiltonian dynamics deviate from the random circuit predictions and require times scaling approximately linearly with system size to achieve saturation of participation and stabilizer entropies, which remain smaller than that of the typical quantum states even in the long-time limit. Our findings establish the phenomenology of participation and entropy growth in ergodic many-body systems and emphasize the role of energy conservation in constraining anticoncentration and magic dynamics.


---
# Compositional flexibility in irreducible antifluorite electrolytes for next-generation battery anodes

## 用于下一代电池阳极的不可还原的抗萤石电解质的组成灵活性

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-1d7pt-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Alexandros, Vasileiadis

Solid state batteries currently receive ample attention due to their potential to outperform lithium ion batteries in terms of energy density when featuring next generation anodes such as lithium metal or silicon. One key remaining challenge is identifying solid electrolytes that combine high ionic conductivity with stability in contact with the highly reducing potentials of next-generation anodes. Fully reduced electrolytes, based on irreducible anions, offer a promising solution by avoiding electrolyte decomposition altogether. In this study, we demonstrate the compositional flexibility of the disordered antifluorite framework accessible by mechanochemical synthesis and leverage it to discover irreducible electrolytes with high ionic conductivities. We show that the recently investigated Li9N2Cl3 and Li5NCl2 phases are part of the same solid solution of Li-deficient antifluorite phases existing on the LiCl-Li3N tie line with a general chemical formula of Li1+2xCl1-xNx (0.33<0.5). Using density functional theory calculations, we identify the origin of the 5-order of magnitude conductivity increase of the Li1+2xCl1-xNx phases compared to the structurally related rock salt LiCl phase. Finally, we demonstrate that SCl  and BrCl substituted analogues of the Li1+2xCl1-xNx phases may be synthesized, enabling significant conductivity improvements by a factor of 10, reaching 0.2 mS cm-1 for Li2.31S0.41Br0.14N0.45. This investigation demonstrates for the first time that irreducible antifluorite-like phases are compositionally highly modifiable; this finding lays the ground for discovery of new compositions of irreducible antifluorite-like phases with even further increased conductivities, which could help eliminate solid-electrolyte decomposition and decomposition-induced Li losses on the anode side in high-performance next-generation batteries.


---
# Size-dependent effects of Ge addition on the coking and sintering tendency of PtnGex/alumina
(n=4,7,11) model catalysts

## Ge的添加对PtnGex/氧化铝的结焦和烧结趋势的尺寸依赖性影响
(n = 4,7，11) 模型催化剂

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-n3np0?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Anastassia, Alexandrova

The reactivity and adsorbate binding properties of alumina-supported Ptn and PtnGem (n/m = 4/1,
7/2, 11/4) model catalysts were studied using a combination of ethylene and CO temperatureprogrammed
desorption (TPD), He+ ion scattering (ISS), and detailed density functional theory
(DFT). The Ptn/alumina catalysts gradually deactivated in repeated CO TPD runs and deactivated
more rapidly in repeated ethylene TPD runs due to the effects of sintering and carbon deposition
(coking). PtnGem/alumina catalysts were dramatically more stable against deactivation by both
sintering and coking. Carbon addition to Ptn/alumina also increased stability against sintering, but not
coking. Ion scattering was used to probe the nature of adsorbate binding, including the effects of both
carbon and Ge addition on the accessibility of strong Pt-associated binding sites for ethylene and CO.
DFT was used to examine the electronic and geometric structures and ethylene and CO binding
properties of Ptn (n = 4, 7) with added Ge, carbon, or both. Consistent with the ISS results, DFT
shows that loss of strong adsorbate binding sites mostly resulted from changes to the electronic
properties of the clusters, rather than simple blocking of binding sites by Ge or carbon

