# First-principles study of electron dynamics of MoS 2  under femtosecond laser irradiation from deep ultraviolet to near-infrared wavelengths

## 从深紫外到近红外波长的飞秒激光辐照下MoS 2电子动力学的第一性原理研究

Link: https://pubs.aip.org/aip/jcp/article/161/22/224709/3325671/First-principles-study-of-electron-dynamics-of

<span class="paragraphSection">Time-dependent density functional theory was employed to investigate the electron dynamics of MoS<sub>2</sub> following femtosecond pulse irradiation. The study concerned the effects of laser wavelength, intensities, and polarization and elucidated the ionization mechanisms across the intensity range of 10<sup>10</sup>–10<sup>14</sup> W/cm<sup>2</sup>. As laser intensity increases, MoS<sub>2</sub> irradiated with an infrared (IR) laser (800 nm) deviates from single-photon absorption at lower intensities compared to that subjected to an ultraviolet (UV) laser (266 nm), and nonlinear effects in the current arise at lower intensities for the 800 nm laser. At a wavelength of 266 nm, MoS<sub>2</sub> irradiated with an <span style="font-style: italic;">a</span>-axis polarized laser deposited more energy and generated more electron–hole pairs compared to <span style="font-style: italic;">c</span>-axis polarization. Rate equations were used to estimate the total number of excited electrons in MoS<sub>2</sub> and the corresponding plasma frequency. Simulation results indicate that the damage threshold of the UV laser is higher than that of the IR laser, which contradicts the experimental results. This outcome suggests that the mechanism of material damage induced by the UV femtosecond laser near the damage threshold is independent of optical breakdown. The findings of this research are significant for enhancing the performance of MoS<sub>2</sub>-based photodetectors and optimizing their stability and reliability in high-power, short-wavelength laser applications.</span>


---
# Entangled excited state branching processes in a Ru(II)-based push-pull triad

## 基于Ru(II) 的推挽三元组中的纠缠激发态分支过程

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-9fds6?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Benjamin,  Dietzek-Ivanšić

Compared with triplet metal-to-ligand charge transfer (3MLCT) states, charge-separated (3CS) excited states involving organic moieties, such as triplet intra-ligand or ligand-to-ligand charge transfer (3ILCT and 3LLCT) states, tend to possess longer-lived excited states due to the weak spin-orbit coupling with the closed-shell ground state (GS). Thus, the combination of both inorganic and organic chromophores enables the isolation of triplet excited states onto the organic chromophore. Herein, we aim to elucidate the entangled excited-state relaxation processes in a Ru(II)-terpyridyl push-pull triad (RuCl) in a joint spectroscopic-theoretical approach combining steady-state and time-resolved spectroscopy as well as quantum chemical simulations and dissipative quantum dynamics. The kinetics of the underlying electron transfer (ET) processes involving the low-lying 3MLCT, 3ILCT and 3LLCT excited states were investigated experimentally and computationally within a semi-classical Marcus picture, which allowed us to evaluate the ET processes between along the 3MLCT-3ILCT and the 3MLCT-3LLCT channels. Finally, dissipative quantum dynamical simulations – capable of describing incomplete ET processes involving all three states of interest – enabled us to unravel the competitive excited state relaxation channels at the short timescale vs. at the long timescale among the strongly coupled 3MLCT-3ILCT states as well as the weakly coupled 3MLCT/3ILCT-3LLCT states.


---
# Hydrophosphinylation of Alkynes via Neutral Magnesium Complexes: Evidence for Ligand Dependency in Structure-Activity Relationships

## 通过中性镁配合物对炔烃进行氢膦基化: 结构-活性关系中配体依赖性的证据

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-1twlf?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Biswarup, Pathak

The pursuit of practical, straightforward, and sustainable methods for forming carbon-phosphorus bonds is crucial in both academia and industry. Traditional synthetic methods often rely on hazardous, halogenated precursors through salt-metathesis routes. In this study, we have synthesized and characterized magnesium complexes [L(Mg-nBu)2] (L = bis(diiminate); nBu = n-butyl) 1 and 2. Complex 1 effectively catalyzes the hydrophosphinylation of alkynes resulting stepwise hydrophosphinylated products namely monophosphinylated vinyledene- and 1,2-diphosphinylated alkanes. While doubly addition products with the alkynes are predominant, this catalytic reaction produces anti-Markovnikov products with inactivated alkenes, whereas activated alkenes giving rise to conjugated products. This transformation showcases an excellent atom economy, broad functional group tolerance and gram scale synthesis for organophosphorus compounds. Through controlled experiments, kinetic studies, and density functional theoretical calculations, we elucidated the reaction mechanism, identifying the active catalytic species and revealing a stepwise hydrophosphinylation process of alkynes. Although complex 1 showed its potential in the hydrophosphinylation of alkynes, complexes 2 and 3 produced a lower yield of hydrophosphinylated products, indicating the role of ligand (spacer) in this catalytic transformation. This work is the first to demonstrate that a neutral magnesium complex can independently catalyse the hydrophosphinylation of alkynes and offers opportunities for the hydrophosphinylation of other compounds catalyzed by main-group metal complexes.


---
# Why Ti3C2Tx MXenes Are Conductive but Not
Plasmonic in the Optical Domain

## 为什么Ti3C2Tx MXenes导电但不导电
光域中的等离子体

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-rpf17-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Masoud, Soroush

MXenes have shown great potential in electronic and optoelectronic applications. However, optical properties of these highly conductive two-dimentional materials are not fully understood. The near-infrared (IR) optical peak (∼1.5
eV) in Ti3C2Tx with mixed terminations (T: O, OH, F, Cl) has sparked debates, attributing the peak to a localized surface plasmon resonance (LSPR) or an inter-band transition (IBT). Here, density functional theory calculations conclusively assign the peak to an IBT that exists only in Ti3C2O2. Both experiments and calculations corroborate that this peak is absent in Ti3C2Cl2. Moreover, calculations predict SPR in the mid-IR (∼0.5 eV, outside optical domain) for Ti3C2O2, but not for Ti3C2Cl2. Our results reconcile conflicting interpretations of the debate, allowing for optimized use of Ti3C2Tx MXenes, by leveraging their IBT optical signature, which is size-independent and distinct from the size-dependent plasmonic effect.


---
# Adapted DFTB3 repulsive potentials reach DFT accuracy for hydride transfer reactions in enzymes

## 适应的DFTB3排斥势达到酶中氢化物转移反应的DFT精度

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-kkwwg-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Esteban , Vöhringer-Martinez

Enzymatic hydride transfer reactions play a crucial role in numerous metabolic pathways, yet their accurate computational modeling remains challenging due to the trade-off between accuracy and computational efficiency. Ideally, molecular dynamics simulations should sample all enzyme configurations along the reaction path using post Hartree-Fock or DFT QM/MM electrostatic embedding methods, but these are computationally expensive. Here, we introduce a simple approach to improve the third-order density functional tight binding (DFTB3) semi-empirical method to model hydride transfer reactions in enzymes. We identified deficiencies in DFTB3's description of the potential energy surface for the hydride transfer step in Crotonyl-CoA Carboxylase/Reductase (Ccr) and developed a systematic methodology to address these limitations. Our approach involves modifying DFTB3's repulsive potential functions using linear combinations of harmonic functions, guided by analysis of C-H and C-C distance distributions along the reaction path. The optimized DFTB3 Hamiltonian significantly improved the description of the hydride transfer reaction in Ccr, reproducing the reference DFT activation barrier within 0.1 kcal/mol. We also addressed the transferability of our method by applying it to another hydride transfer reaction bearing the 1,4-dihydropyridine motif but exhibiting distinct structural features of the reactant, as well as the hydride transfer reaction in Dihydrofolate Reductase (DHFR). In both cases our adapted DFTB3 Hamiltonian correctly reproduced the DFT reference and experimentally observed activation barriers. The low computational cost and transferability of our method will enable more accurate and efficient QM/MM molecular dynamics simulations of hydride transfer reactions, potentially accelerating research in enzyme engineering and drug design.


---
# Density Functional Theory Study of Hydrogen and Oxygen Reactions on NiO(100) and Ce doped NiO(100)

## 氢氧反应在NiO(100) 和Ce掺杂NiO(100) 上的密度泛函理论研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5443307/latest

The reaction mechanism of H2 and O2, as well as the electronic properties of NiO(100) and Ce-doped NiO(100), have been investigated using density functional theory (DFT) with the inclusion of on-site Coulomb corrections (DFT&amp;thinsp;+&amp;thinsp;U). Results indicate that the reactions of H2 and O2 occur favorably on the reduced surfaces of both NiO(100) and Ce-doped NiO(100). However, once the oxygen vacancy on the reduced surface is filled, the activation energy for H2 reacting with lattice oxygen increases on both surfaces, with Ce-doped NiO(100) showing a lower activation energy of 1.64 eV compared to 3.16 eV on pure NiO(100). Charge analysis clearly reveals that Ce doping brings excess electrons localized at O atoms, which significantly increases the lattice oxygen activity. These results are of great significance for understanding the role of Ce in the surface structure of NiO (100).


---
# Contact electrification of organic liquid - metal interface induced by energy level shift

## 能级位移引起的有机液体-金属界面接触带电

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5528931/latest

Liquid-solid contact electrification (L-S CE) has become a widely researched topic in recent years, presenting innovative approaches to enhancing traditional power supply methods. However, most research on L-S CE has predominantly concentrated on electrolyte solutions interacting with solid surfaces. In this study, we systematically explored, for the first time, the L-S interface formed between non-electrolytes (organic solvents) and metals. Our experiments demonstrated that a simple system composed of two dissimilar metal electrodes and pure ethanol can achieve a maximum open-circuit voltage (VOC) of 578 mV, short-circuit current (ISC) of 744 nA, and an output power density of 62.29 nW/cm&sup2;. Density Functional Theory (DFT) and Molecular Dynamics (MD) calculations revealed that the formation of the L-S interface between the organic solvent and metal induces a vacuum energy level shift, facilitating spontaneous electron transfer, which underpins the generation of electrical signals. Furthermore, by integrating DFT calculations with experimental measurements, we investigated the electron transfer characteristics of various metals and organic solvents, and measured their corresponding VOC, establishing a clear relationship between them. Finally, the metal-organic solvent system developed in this study can amplify electrical signals through straightforward series and parallel connections. This work establishes a robust foundation for further exploration of non-electrolyte applications in the field of L-S CE.


---
# Application of terahertz time domain spectroscopy on real-time monitoring the generation of 8-hydroquinolinium salicylate

## 太赫兹时域光谱技术在8-氢喹啉水杨酸盐生成过程实时监测中的应用

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5331449/latest

8-hydroquinolinium salicylate is kind of salt with enhanced dissolution rate and bioavailability by forming intermolecular hydrogen bonds between 8-hydroxyquinolinium cations and salicylate anions. Based on the correspondence between intermolecular hydrogen bonds and the molecular vibrational modes, the THz fingerprints of 8-hydroquinolinium salicylate and its parent molecules were systematically investigated by terahertz time-domain spectroscopy combined with theoretical calculations. It is demonstrated that there are substantial differences between THz fingerprints of 8-hydroquinolinium salicylate and the ones of its parent molecules in the range of 0.2-2.0 THz, such as the number, amplitude and frequency positions of absorption peaks. By combining Hirshfeld surface analysis with the 2D fingerprint diagrams, the pattern of intermolecular hydrogen bonds (including O5-⸱⸱⸱H3+-N1, O8-⸱⸱⸱H4+-N2 as well as &pi;⸳⸳⸳&pi; interactions) was obtained within the molecular system of 8-hydroxyquinolinium salicylate. Furthermore, the full geometry optimizations were performed and all THz absorption peaks were assigned to their corresponding vibrational modes by employing dispersion-corrected density functional theory. It is confirmed that there are significant differences between 8-hydroxyquinolinium salicylate and its parent molecules for the weak intermolecular hydrogen bonds and the corresponding vibrational modes. Moreover, the THz absorption spectra of products of 8-Hydroxyquinoline and salicylic acid were also obtained in reaction process at different times. It is exhibited that there are important changes with time for the amplitude and frequency position of THz absorption peaks. All of above results provide valuable insights for monitoring the chemical and biological processes of pharmaceutical compounds in real time by THz-TDS.

