# Infinite Grassmann time-evolving matrix product operators for non-equilibrium quantum impurity problems

## 非平衡量子杂质问题的无限Grassmann时间演化矩阵乘积算子

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04702

arXiv:2412.04702v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: An emergent numerical approach to solve quantum impurity problems is to encode the impurity path integral as a matrix product state. For time-dependent problems, the cost of this approach generally scales with the evolution time. Here we consider a common non-equilibrium scenario where an impurity, initially in equilibrium with a thermal bath, is driven out of equilibrium by a time-dependent force term. Despite that there is no time-translational invariance in the problem, we show that we could still make full use of the infinite matrix product state technique, resulting in a method whose cost is essentially independent of the evolution time. We demonstrate the effectiveness of this method in the integrable case against exact diagonalization, and against existing calculations on the L-shaped Kadanoff-Baym contour in the general case. Our method could be a very competitive method for studying long-time non-equilibrium quantum dynamics, and be potentially used as an efficient impurity solver in the non-equilibrium dynamical mean field theory.


---
# Asymptotic methods for confined fluids

## 受限流体的渐近方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.05027

arXiv:2412.05027v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The thermodynamics and microstructure of confined fluids with small particle number are best described using the canonical ensemble. However, practical calculations can usually only be performed in the grand-canonical ensemble, which can introduce unphysical artifacts. We employ the method of asymptotics to transform grand-canonical observables to the canonical ensemble, where the former can be conveniently obtained using the classical density functional theory of inhomogeneous fluids. By formulating the ensemble transformation as a contour integral in the complex fugacity plane we reveal the influence of the Yang-Lee zeros in determining the form and convergence properties of the asymptotic series. The theory is employed to develop expansions for the canonical partition function and the canonical one-body density. Numerical investigations are then performed using an exactly soluble one-dimensional model system of hard-rods.


---
# The SYK charging advantage as a random walk on graphs

## SYK充电优势作为图上的随机游走

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04560

arXiv:2412.04560v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We investigate the charging dynamics of Sachdev-Ye-Kitaev (SYK) models as quantum batteries, highlighting their capacity to achieve quantum charging advantages. By analytically deriving the scaling of the charging power in SYK batteries, we identify the two key mechanisms underlying this advantage: the use of operators scaling extensively with system size $N$ and the facilitation of operator delocalization by specific graph structures. A novel graph-theoretic framework is introduced in which the charging process is recast as a random walk on a graph, enabling a quantitative analysis of operator spreading. Our results establish rigorous conditions for the quantum advantage in SYK batteries and extend these insights to graph-based SYK models, revealing broader implications for energy storage and quantum dynamics. This work opens avenues for leveraging quantum chaos and complex network structures in optimizing energy transfer processes.


---
# Effects of charge, dopant, and H saturation on the hydrogen evolution activity of Au25-based thiolate-protected nanoclusters

## 电荷，掺杂剂和H饱和度对Au25-based硫醇盐保护的纳米团簇的析氢活性的影响

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-xv0nd?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

This study examines the effects of charge, dopant type, and hydrogen saturation on the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) activity of thiolate-protected Au25-based nanoclusters using density functional theory (DFT). By extending the analysis to include up to 10 hydrogen atoms, this work captures the behavior of these nanoclusters under realistic HER reaction conditions, providing a broader understanding of the catalytic properties. Our findings, supported by Pourbaix diagrams, reveal that high hydrogen coverages dominate under HER-relevant potentials.  Pt- and Pd-doped clusters exhibit remarkable structural stability, retaining their icosahedral core even at high hydrogen coverage. The detachment of thiol (HSR) and HAu-S(R)H molecules creates more accessible active sites enhancing catalytic efficiency. These clusters also support low H (2H) coverage states at less negative potentials, further contributing to their superior catalytic activity. In contrast, Cu-, Ag-, Zn-, Cd-, and Hg-doped clusters undergo structural collapse of the icosahedral core as hydrogen coverage increases and stabilize only high coverage clusters (> 7 H), correlating with their lower reactivity. These results highlight the critical role of dopant-induced structural and electronic dynamics in governing HER pathways and provide new insights into designing efficient nanocluster catalysts for sustainable hydrogen production.


---
# Resolution of selectivity steps of CO reduction reaction on copper by quantum Monte Carlo

## 通过量子蒙特卡洛解析铜上CO还原反应的选择性步骤

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-46fll?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Electrochemical reduction of carbon monoxide to valuable fuels and chemicals on copper surfaces remains a challenging area in catalysis due to a limited understanding of adsorption mechanisms and reaction pathways. Although density functional theory (DFT) based studies have investigated these processes, their accuracy varies across different functionals. Here, we present the first application of fixed-node diffusion Monte Carlo (FNDMC) to benchmark the adsorption energies of CO*, H*, and key CO reduction reaction (CORR) intermediates, COH* and CHO* on the Cu(111) surface. Our results for CO* and H* adsorption energies closely align with experimentally measured chemisorption reactions, highlighting the limitations of DFT, and providing site-specific energy comparisons that are often not available experimentally. Additionally, we explore the effect of explicit solvation, demonstrating how water stabilizes the COH* over CHO*, thus suggesting a critical role of COH* in CORR. Finally, we release our high-accuracy FNDMC benchmarks for testing and developing new DFT functionals for electrocatalysis. Overall, this study underscores the potential of FNDMC for detailed surface chemistry studies and offers new insights into catalytic processes.


---
# Data-driven site occupancy statistics in cubic Prussian Blue

## 立方普鲁士蓝中的数据驱动的网站占用统计

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-42s4z?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Sodium-ion batteries are emerging as a cost-effective and sustainable alternative to lithium-ion technology. Prussian blue compounds are demonstrating considerable potential as cathode materials, offering exceptional structural stability and rapid sodium-ion diffusion capabilities. However, in spite of the importance of Prussian Blue for the emerging technology of sodium-ion batteries, surprisingly many atomistic details of the structural changes upon charging and dis-charging are not yet clarified. This study aims to assess stable sodium configurations and derive reliable site occupancy statistics. We employ periodic density functional theory (DFT) to construct the first complete convex hull for the cubic system, encompassing all 24d sites, thereby exploring the entire configurational space available within these compounds. We identify a new, more stable sodium arrangement within the fully sodiated, cubic Prussian Blue structure, which has to be considered for reliable atomistic modeling. The convex hull identifies a single stable intermediate sodium concentration (x = 1), which aligns with observed voltage plateaus in open-circuit voltage measurements. Furthermore, a comparative analysis of the cubic phase and its rhombohedral counterpart is conducted, demonstrating qualitative consistency with phase transition for higher sodium concentrations (x $>$ 1). These results strengthen the evidence that Prussian Blue compounds offer exceptional potential as cathode materials, providing valuable insights into their intricate sodium orderings.


---
# Understanding the Nitrogen Reduction Reaction Mechanism on CuFeO2 Photocathodes

## 了解CuFeO2光电阴极上的氮还原反应机理

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-sc8jv?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

This study investigates the reaction pathways for the conversion of \ce{N2} to \ce{NH3} on \ce{CuFeO2} (CFO) by employing density functional theory (DFT) calculations. Concentrating on the most stable (012) surface orientation, two systems were examined: the pristine (012) surface and the corresponding oxygen defective surface. To find the thermodynamic stable pathway, the associative Heyrovsk{\'y} mechanism was considered, containing four different reaction pathways.  The reaction intermediates predominantly interact with the iron sites on the surface, following the distal alternating reaction pathway via the formation of hydrazine. Introducing oxygen defects changes the reaction mechanism to a Mars--van--Krevelen--type mechanism, avoiding the formation of hydrazine, while the Gibbs free energy of the first hydrogenation step is lowered by 1.17~eV (from 2.17 to 1.00~eV). Analyzing the charge density distribution reveals that oxygen defective surface enables CFO to facilitate a $\pi$--backdonation between iron sites and the NRR intermediates, increasing the intermediate--surface interaction. This indicates an enhanced catalytic activity for the NRR by generating oxygen lattice defects in CFO.


---
# Conformational analysis of arginine methylated and di methylated and serine phosphorylated in silico

## 精氨酸甲基化和二甲基化以及丝氨酸磷酸化的构象分析

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5554638/latest

post-translational modifications (PTMs) encompass alterations to the side chains of amino acids subsequent to their synthesis. These modifications play pivotal roles in regulating diverse cellular processes, such as kinase activation, protein degradation, and more. Additionally, they exert a significant influence on the functionality and architecture of the proteins within which these processes occur. Depending on the specific amino acid affected and its location, these modifications can contribute to the development of various diseases. Through Density Functional Theory (DFT) calculations, we delve into the structural ramifications of PTMs on amino acids, exploring whether they might contribute to their deregulation. We recognize that these modifications do indeed alter the orientation of amino acids, which may play a significant role in the development of various diseases or even their initiation. Additionally, we observe PTMs also have an impact on several characteristics of amino acids, such as dipolar moment, highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO), lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO), and partial charge. This suggests that modifying these features can potentially influence factors like the stability of the amino acid or even the entire protein. Through this study, we can conclude that by adopting this approach, we can gain deeper insights into the influence of PTMs on amino acids and whether such influences can be directly linked to the development of diseases associated with PTM deregulation.


---
# Comparative study on the reaction mechanism of 5-hydroxymethyl furfural on Pd(111) and Cu(111)

## 5-羟甲基糠醛在Pd(111) 和Cu(111) 上反应机理的比较研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5414735/latest

Context
In this paper, the comparative study on the catalytic conversion of 5-hydroxymethyl furfural (HMF) to 2,5-bis(hydroxymethyl)furan (BHMF) on precious Pd(111) and non-precious Cu(111) was systematically studied using periodic density functional theory (DFT) including zero-point energy (ZPE) correction and dispersion correction. Based on the calculated activation energy (Ea) and reaction energy (Er), it was concluded that the optimal energy path for the HMF (F-CHO) conversion to BHMF (F-CH2OH) on Pd(111) is as follows: F-CHO&thinsp;+&thinsp;2H &rarr; F-CHOH&thinsp;+&thinsp;H &rarr; F-CH2OH; and the minimum reaction path on Cu(111) is: F-CHO&thinsp;+&thinsp;2H &rarr; F-CH2O&thinsp;+&thinsp;H &rarr; F-CH2OH. On Cu(111), the formation of F-CH2OH from F-CH2O hydrogenation displays the highest reaction energy barrier and the smallest rate constant so that it is the rate-determining step. The comparison of HMF hydrogenation on Pd(111) and Cu(111) reveals their inherent differences in selectivity mainly due to the different adsorption geometries of HMF and BHMF, and it was concluded the non-precious Cu(111) is a promising hydrogenation catalyst for the production of BHMF from the hydrogenation of HMF.
Methods
All plane-wave DFT calculations were performed by using Vienna ab initio simulation package (VASP, version 5.3.5). The exchange and correlation energies were computed using the generalized gradient approximation (GGA) of Perdew, Burke and Ernzerhof (PBE) functional with the projector augmented wave (PAW) method.

