# Probing the Interaction Between Topological and Rashba-like Surface States in MnBi$_2$Te$_4$ Through Sn Doping

## 通过Sn掺杂探索MnBi $_2 $ Te $_4 $ 中拓扑和类Rashba表面态之间的相互作用

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18666

**Authors:** A. V. Tarasov, D. A. Estyunin, A. G. Rybkin, A. S. Frolov, A. I. Sergeev, A. V. Eryzhenkov, V. V. Anferova, T. P. Estyunina, D. A. Glazkova, K. A. Kokh, V. A. Golyashov, O. E. Tereshchenko, S. Ideta, Y. Miyai, Y. Kumar, K. Shimada, A. M. Shikin

arXiv:2412.18666v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The presence of Rashba-like surface states (RSS) in the electronic structure of topological insulators (TIs) has been a longstanding topic of interest due to their significant impact on electronic and spin structures. In this study, we investigate the interaction between topological and Rashba-like surface states (TSS and RSS) in Mn$_{1-x}$Sn$_x$Bi$_2$Te$_4$ systems using density functional theory (DFT) calculations and high-resolution ARPES. Our findings reveal that increasing Sn concentration shifts RSS downward in energy, enhancing their influence on the electronic structure near the Fermi level. ARPES validates these predictions, capturing the evolution of RSS and their hybridization with TSS. Orbital analysis shows RSS are localized within the first three Te-Bi-Te trilayers, dominated by Bi $p$-orbitals, with evidence of the orbital Rashba effect enhancing spin-momentum locking. At higher Sn concentrations, RSS penetrate deeper into the crystal, driven by Sn $p$-orbital contributions. These results position Mn$_{1-x}$Sn$_x$Bi$_2$Te$_4$ as a tunable platform for tailoring electronic properties in spintronic and quantum technologies.


---
# The light-matter correlation energy functional of the cavity-coupled two-dimensional electron gas via quantum Monte Carlo simulations

## 腔耦合二维电子气的光物质相关能泛函的量子蒙特卡罗模拟

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19222

**Authors:** Lukas Weber, Miguel A. Morales, Johannes Flick, Shiwei Zhang, Angel Rubio

arXiv:2412.19222v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We perform extensive simulations of the two-dimensional cavity-coupled electron gas in a modulating potential as a minimal model for cavity quantum materials. These simulations are enabled by a newly developed quantum-electrodynamical (QED) auxiliary-field quantum Monte Carlo method. We present a procedure to greatly reduce finite-size effects in such calculations. Based on our results, we show that a modified version of weak-coupling perturbation theory is remarkably accurate for a large parameter region. We further provide a simple parameterization of the light-matter correlation energy as a functional of the cavity parameters and the electronic density. These results provide a numerical foundation for the development of the QED density functional theory, which was previously reliant on analytical approximations, to allow quantitative modeling of a wide range of systems with light-matter coupling.


---
# Investigation of the Pressure Dependent Physical Properties of MAX Phase Ti2AlX (X = B, C, and N) Compounds: A First-Principles Study

## 研究最大相Ti2AlX (X = B，C和N) 化合物的压力依赖性物理性质: 第一性原理研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19431

**Authors:** M. I. Naher, M. Montasir, M. Y. H. Khan, M. A. Ali, M. M. Hossain, M. M. Uddin, M. Z. Hasan, M. A. Hadi, S. H. Naqib

arXiv:2412.19431v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The physical properties and their pressure dependence of recently synthesized Ti2AlX (X = B, C, and N) MAX phases are investigated for the very first time applying density functional theory (DFT).


---
# DFT based comparative analysis of physical properties of binary metallic diborides XB$_2$ (X = Cr, Mo and W)

## 基于DFT的二元金属二硼化物XB $_2 $ (X = Cr，Mo和W) 物理性能的比较分析

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19687

**Authors:** Razu Ahmed, Md. Sohel Rana, Md. Sajidul Islam, S. H. Naqib

arXiv:2412.19687v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Transition-metal borides (TMBs) have long attracted attention of the researchers because of their unique mechanical and electrical properties including superconductivity. We have explored the structural, mechanical, electronic, optical, and some thermophysical properties of XB$_2$ (X = Cr, Mo and W) binary metallic diborides in detail employing density functional theory based first-principles method. Many of the physical properties, including direction-dependent mechanical properties, optical properties, and thermo-mechanical properties are being investigated for the first time.


---
# First-principles investigation of thermodynamics and electronic transitions in vacancy-ordered rare-earth perovskite nickelates

## 空位有序稀土钙钛矿镍酸盐的热力学和电子跃迁的第一性原理研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19700

**Authors:** Devang Bhagat, Ranga Teja Pidathala, Badri Narayanan

arXiv:2412.19700v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Controlled introduction of oxygen vacancies offers an effective route to induce metal-to-insulator transition in strongly correlated rare-earth nickelates ($R$NiO$_3$) at room temperature. However, the role played by the rare-earth cations on the structure, thermodynamic stability, and electronic properties of oxygen-deficient nickelates remains unclear. Here, we employ density functional theory calculations with Hubbard corrections (DFT + $U$) to investigate the whole family of $R$NiO$_{2.5}$ ($R$ = Pr-Er) compounds in two commonly observed oxygen-vacancy ordered configurations, namely brownmillerite, and square planar. We find that square planar polymorph is always more stable ($\sim$0.4 eV/u.f) than the brownmillerite for all rare-earth cations, owing to the exceedingly low volumetric strains (< 1\%). Formation energy of $R$NiO$_{2.5}$ gradually increases with decreasing size of $R$ owing to stronger Ni-O covalent interactions in pristine $R$NiO$_3$ with small $R^{3+}$ cations. This necessitates more oxygen-lean environments for synthesis of $R$NiO$_{2.5}$ with smaller $R^{3+}$ cations. Analysis of the density of states and band structures reveals that electronic structure of $R$NiO$_{2.5}$ is governed by two factors: (a) localization of electron on NiO$_6$ octahedra yielding a Mott insulating state with strong correlations as Ni $e_g$ is half filled, and (b) crystal field splitting in the NiO$_4$ tetrahedra/square planar polyhedra. Brownmillerite $R$NiO$_{2.5}$ is metallic, while square planar $R$NiO$_{2.5}$ is an insulator with a predicted gap of $\sim$ 0.2-0.3 eV, depending on the $R^{3+}$ cation. Crystal orbital Hamilton population (COHP) analysis indicates that the Ni-O bond belonging to square-planar NiO$_4$ polyhedra exhibit much greater covalent character than those in NiO$_6$ octahedra in square planar $R$NiO$_{2.5}$.


---
# High performance Black Phosphorus/Graphitic Carbon Nitride Heterostructure-based Wearable Sensor for Real-time Sweat Glucose Monitoring

## 基于高性能黑磷/石墨氮化碳异质结构的可穿戴传感器，用于实时汗液葡萄糖监测

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19633

**Authors:** Ecem Ezgi Ozkahraman, Zafer Eroglu, Vladimir Efremov, Arooba Maryyam, Taher Abbasiasl, Ritu Das, Hadi Mirzajani, Berna Akgenc Hanedar, Levent Beker, Onder Metin

arXiv:2412.19633v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Wearable, non-invasive glucose sensors capable of accurate and continuous monitoring are crucial for managing metabolic conditions yet achieving high sensitivity and stability in these devices remains challenging. In this work, we present a Black Phosphorus/Graphitic Carbon Nitride (BP/g-CN) heterostructure engineered to leverage phosphorus-nitrogen interactions for enhanced electrochemical glucose oxidation activity. Compared to pristine gCN, the BP-gCN heterostructure demonstrates a significantly improved electrochemical surface area (ECSA) and nearly two-fold reduction in charge transfer resistance (Rct), achieving remarkable glucose sensitivity of 1.1 uA mM(^-1) cm(^-2) at physiological pH. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations revealed stronger glucose adsorption and higher charge transfer on the BP-gCN heterostructure compared to pristine gCN surface. These theoretical insights complement the experimental findings, highlighting the superior electrocatalytic performance of the heterostructure and the role of oxidized BP surface. Furthermore, the BP-gCN sensor is integrated into a wearable device platform with microfluidic layers and a Near Field Communication (NFC) chip, forming a conformal skin patch that enables real-time sweat glucose monitoring. This demonstration of a high-performance, non-enzymatic wearable glucose sensor based on a heterostructure design underscores the potential of the device for seamless health management and paves the way for next generation biosensing platforms aimed at improving personalized and continuous health monitoring.


---
# Streamlined Krylov construction and classification of ergodic Floquet systems

## 遍历Floquet系统的简化Krylov构造和分类

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19797

**Authors:** Nikita Kolganov, Dmitrii A. Trunin

arXiv:2412.19797v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We generalize Krylov construction to periodically driven (Floquet) quantum systems using the theory of orthogonal polynomials on the unit circle. Compared to other approaches, our method works faster and maps any quantum dynamics to a one-dimensional tight-binding Krylov chain. We also suggest a classification of chaotic and integrable Floquet systems based on the asymptotic behavior of Krylov chain hopping parameters (Verblunsky coefficients). We illustrate this classification with random matrix ensembles, kicked top, and kicked Ising chain.


---
# Electronic states in superconducting type-II Dirac semimetal: 1T-PdSeTe

## 超导II型狄拉克半金属中的电子态: 1T-PdSeTe

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.15500

**Authors:** Yogendra Kumar, Shiv Kumar, Venkateswara Yenugonda, Ryohei Oishi, Jayita Nayak, Chaoyu Chen, Ravi Prakash Singh, Takahiro Onimaru, Yasuyuki Shimura, Shinichiro Ideta, Kenya Shimada

arXiv:2408.15500v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We have investigated the surface and bulk electronic structures of the superconducting type-II Dirac semimetal 1T-PdSeTe. The superconducting transition temperature $T_C = 3.2$ K was almost twice as high as $T_C = 1.6$ K in 1T-PdTe$_2$. Scanning transmission electron microscopy measurements showed homogeneously mixed Se and Te atoms in the chalcogen layers, consistent with the CdI$_2$-type crystal structure. Angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy measurements and density functional theory calculations indicated the existence of the topological surface states, and the overall band structures were similar to those of 1T-PdTe$_2$. These results suggest that CdI$_2$-type lattice symmetry dictates the band dispersion, regardless of atomic disorder in the chalcogen layers. As the electronic band dispersion and the local structures were persistent upon substitution, the enhancement of $T_C$ is likely associated with the chemical pressure. Our results provide insight into the effects of the solid solution on the surface and bulk electronic states as well as the superconducting transition temperature.


---
# Conjugate gradient direct minimization on the complex Stiefel manifold in Kohn-Sham density functional theory for finite and extended systems

## 有限和扩展系统的kohn-sham密度泛函理论中复Stiefel流形上的共轭梯度直接最小化

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18807

**Authors:** Kai Luo, Tingguang Wang, Xinguo Ren

arXiv:2412.18807v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Direct minimization method on the complex Stiefel manifold in Kohn-Sham density functional theory is formulated to treat both finite and extended systems in a unified manner. This formulation is well-suited for scenarios where straightforward iterative diagonalization becomes challenging, especially when the Aufbau principle is not applicable. We present the theoretical foundation and numerical implementation of the Riemannian conjugate gradient (RCG) within a localized non-orthogonal basis set. Riemannian Broyden-Fletcher-Goldfarb-Shanno (RBFGS) method is tentatively implemented. Extensive testing compares the performance of the proposed RCG method with the traditional self-consistent field (SCF) algorithm and shows that it is less efficient. For molecular systems, the RBFGS method requires a computing time comparable to that of SCF calculations. However, for extended systems these methods require much more iterations compared to SCF. Preconditioning can potentially improve its efficiency, especially for metallic systems.


---
# High performance Black Phosphorus/Graphitic Carbon Nitride Heterostructure-based Wearable Sensor for Real-time Sweat Glucose Monitoring

## 基于高性能黑磷/石墨氮化碳异质结构的可穿戴传感器，用于实时汗液葡萄糖监测

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19633

**Authors:** Ecem Ezgi Ozkahraman, Zafer Eroglu, Vladimir Efremov, Arooba Maryyam, Taher Abbasiasl, Ritu Das, Hadi Mirzajani, Berna Akgenc Hanedar, Levent Beker, Onder Metin

arXiv:2412.19633v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Wearable, non-invasive glucose sensors capable of accurate and continuous monitoring are crucial for managing metabolic conditions yet achieving high sensitivity and stability in these devices remains challenging. In this work, we present a Black Phosphorus/Graphitic Carbon Nitride (BP/g-CN) heterostructure engineered to leverage phosphorus-nitrogen interactions for enhanced electrochemical glucose oxidation activity. Compared to pristine gCN, the BP-gCN heterostructure demonstrates a significantly improved electrochemical surface area (ECSA) and nearly two-fold reduction in charge transfer resistance (Rct), achieving remarkable glucose sensitivity of 1.1 uA mM(^-1) cm(^-2) at physiological pH. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations revealed stronger glucose adsorption and higher charge transfer on the BP-gCN heterostructure compared to pristine gCN surface. These theoretical insights complement the experimental findings, highlighting the superior electrocatalytic performance of the heterostructure and the role of oxidized BP surface. Furthermore, the BP-gCN sensor is integrated into a wearable device platform with microfluidic layers and a Near Field Communication (NFC) chip, forming a conformal skin patch that enables real-time sweat glucose monitoring. This demonstration of a high-performance, non-enzymatic wearable glucose sensor based on a heterostructure design underscores the potential of the device for seamless health management and paves the way for next generation biosensing platforms aimed at improving personalized and continuous health monitoring.


---
# The light-matter correlation energy functional of the cavity-coupled two-dimensional electron gas via quantum Monte Carlo simulations

## 腔耦合二维电子气的光物质相关能泛函的量子蒙特卡罗模拟

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19222

**Authors:** Lukas Weber, Miguel A. Morales, Johannes Flick, Shiwei Zhang, Angel Rubio

arXiv:2412.19222v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We perform extensive simulations of the two-dimensional cavity-coupled electron gas in a modulating potential as a minimal model for cavity quantum materials. These simulations are enabled by a newly developed quantum-electrodynamical (QED) auxiliary-field quantum Monte Carlo method. We present a procedure to greatly reduce finite-size effects in such calculations. Based on our results, we show that a modified version of weak-coupling perturbation theory is remarkably accurate for a large parameter region. We further provide a simple parameterization of the light-matter correlation energy as a functional of the cavity parameters and the electronic density. These results provide a numerical foundation for the development of the QED density functional theory, which was previously reliant on analytical approximations, to allow quantitative modeling of a wide range of systems with light-matter coupling.

