# Physics-guided deep learning for skillful wind-wave modeling

## 物理引导的深度学习，用于熟练的风波建模

Link: https://www.science.org/doi/abs/10.1126/sciadv.adr3559?af=R

Science Advances, Volume 10, Issue 49, December 2024. <br />


---
# Probabilistic weather forecasting with machine learning

## 基于机器学习的概率天气预报

Link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-024-08252-9

<p>Nature, Published online: 04 December 2024; <a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-024-08252-9">doi:10.1038/s41586-024-08252-9</a></p>GenCast, a probabilistic weather model using artificial intelligence for weather forecasting, has greater skill and speed than the top operational medium-range weather forecast in the world and provides probabilistic, rather than deterministic, forecasts.


---
# Deep learning training dynamics analysis for single-cell data

## 单细胞数据的深度学习训练动力学分析

Link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s43588-024-00728-y

<p>Nature Computational Science, Published online: 04 December 2024; <a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/s43588-024-00728-y">doi:10.1038/s43588-024-00728-y</a></p>Inspired by recent approaches for natural language processing and computer vision, we developed Annotatability, a framework that analyzes deep neural network training dynamics to interpret pre-annotated single-cell and spatial omics data. Annotatability identified erroneous annotations and ambiguous cell states, inferred trajectories from binary labels, and revealed underlying biological signals.


---
# Teaching spin symmetry while learning neural network wave functions

## 在学习神经网络波函数的同时教授自旋对称性

Link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s43588-024-00727-z

<p>Nature Computational Science, Published online: 04 December 2024; <a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/s43588-024-00727-z">doi:10.1038/s43588-024-00727-z</a></p>By developing an efficient spin symmetry penalty, a recent study has substantially accelerated the calculation of accurate energies with correct spin states in variational Monte Carlo for both ground and excited states of quantum many-particle systems.


---
# Spin-symmetry-enforced solution of the many-body Schrödinger equation with a deep neural network

## 具有深度神经网络的多体schr ö dinger方程的自旋对称强制解

Link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s43588-024-00730-4

<p>Nature Computational Science, Published online: 04 December 2024; <a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/s43588-024-00730-4">doi:10.1038/s43588-024-00730-4</a></p>An efficient approach is developed to enforce spin symmetry for neural network wavefunctions when solving the many-body Schrödinger equation. This enables accurate and spin-pure simulations of both ground and excited states.


---
# Interpreting single-cell and spatial omics data using deep neural network training dynamics

## 使用深度神经网络训练动力学解释单细胞和空间组学数据

Link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s43588-024-00721-5

<p>Nature Computational Science, Published online: 04 December 2024; <a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/s43588-024-00721-5">doi:10.1038/s43588-024-00721-5</a></p>The Annotatability framework analyzes neural network training dynamics to interpret single-cell and spatial omics data. It identifies erroneous annotations and ambiguous cell states, infers trajectories from binary labels and enables signal-aware analysis.


---
# Deep learning at the forefront of detecting tipping points

## 深度学习在检测临界点的最前沿

Link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s42256-024-00957-w

<p>Nature Machine Intelligence, Published online: 04 December 2024; <a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/s42256-024-00957-w">doi:10.1038/s42256-024-00957-w</a></p>A deep learning-based method shows promise in issuing early warnings of rate-induced tipping, of particular interest in anticipating effects due to anthropogenic climate change.


---
# Phase transitions of correlated systems from graph neural networks with quantum embedding techniques

## 来自具有量子嵌入技术的图神经网络的相关系统的相变

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.110.245111

Author(s): Rishi Rao and Li Zhu<br /><p>Correlated systems represent a class of materials that are difficult to describe through traditional electronic structure methods. The computational cost of simulating the structural dynamics of such systems, with correlation effects considered, is substantial. Here, we investigate the structural dy…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 110, 245111] Published Wed Dec 04, 2024


---
# ZeROf-Offload: forward-gradient scheme for efficient full parameter fine-tuning of billion-scale language models

## Zerof-offload: 前向梯度方案，用于对十亿级语言模型进行有效的全参数微调

Link: http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2632-2153/ad9667

In large language models (LLMs), full-parameter fine-tuning is crucial for task-specific adaptation. Traditionally, this relies on deep learning training frameworks utilizing the back-propagation scheme. However, this scheme presents inherent issues, e.g. activation memory bottlenecks and backward locking, which limit the efficient computational resource usage. In this work, we propose the design and analysis of ZeROf-Offload, an innovative fine-tuning framework that adapts the forward-gradient scheme. This framework adopts a unique forward-gradient-oriented CPU offload strategy, enabling fine-tuning of billion-scale LLMs solely in the forward phase and enhancing computational efficiency. Empirical evaluations reveal the advantage of eliminating the backward phase in fine-tuning. ZeROf-Offload achieves134 TFlops/GPU for models with over 130 billion parameters on a single DGX-A100 node, outperforming DeepSpeed’s ZeRO-Offload, which achieves 102 TFlops/GPU for models with up to 53.7 billion parameters, the largest size manageable within GPU memory limitations. Furthermore, we have expanded ZeROf-Offload for multi-DGX-A100 environments with integrated 3D parallelism, achieving near-linear speedup across up to 128 GPUs and the token throughput by 1.4x and 1.5x, respectively. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed ZeROf-Offload has achieved the highest throughput performance compared to all examined state-of-the-art frameworks.


---
# Multi-lattice sampling of quantum field theories via neural operator-based flows

## 通过基于神经算子的流对量子场论进行多晶格采样

Link: http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2632-2153/ad9707

We consider the problem of sampling lattice field configurations on a lattice from the Boltzmann distribution corresponding to some action. Since such densities arise as approximationw of an underlying functional density, we frame the task as an instance of operator learning. We propose to approximate a time-dependent neural operator whose time integral provides a mapping between the functional distributions of the free and target theories. Once a particular lattice is chosen, the neural operator can be discretized to a finite-dimensional, time-dependent vector field which in turn induces a continuous normalizing flow between finite dimensional distributions over the chosen lattice. This flow can then be trained to be a diffeormorphism between the discretized free and target theories on the chosen lattice, and, by construction, can be evaluated on different discretizations of spacetime. We experimentally validate the proposal on the 2-dimensional φ4-theory to explore to what extent such operator-based flow architectures generalize to lattice sizes they were not trained on, and show that pretraining on smaller lattices can lead to a speedup over training directly on the target lattice size.


---
# Exploring the energy landscape of aluminas through machine learning interatomic potential

## 通过机器学习原子间潜力探索氧化铝的能源格局

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02191

arXiv:2412.02191v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Aluminum oxide (alumina, Al$_2$O$_3$) exists in various structures and has broad industrial applications. While the crystal structure of $\alpha$-Al$_2$O$_3$ is well-established, those of transitional aluminas remain highly debated. In this study, we propose a universal machine learning interatomic potential (MLIP) for aluminas, trained using the neuroevolution potential (NEP) approach. The dataset is constructed through iterative training and farthest point sampling, ensuring the generation of the most representative configurations for an exhaustive sampling of the potential energy surface. The accuracy and generality of the potential are validated through simulations under a wide range of conditions, including high temperatures and pressures. A phase diagram is presented that includes both transitional aluminas and $\alpha$-Al$_2$O$_3$ based on the NEP. We also successfully extrapolate the phase diagram of aluminas under extreme conditions ([0, 4000] K and [0, 200] GPa ranges of temperature and pressure, respectively), while maintaining high accuracy in describing their properties under more moderate conditions. Furthermore, combined with our developed structure search workflow, the NEP provides an evaluation of existing $\gamma$-Al$_2$O$_3$ structure models. The NEP developed in this work enables highly accurate dynamic simulations of various aluminas on larger scales and longer timescales, while also offering new insights into the study of transitional aluminas structures.


---
# 3-phases Confusion Learning

## 3阶段混淆学习

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02458

arXiv:2412.02458v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The use of Neural Networks in quantum many-body theory has seen a formidable rise in recent years. Among the many possible applications, one surely is to make use of their pattern recognition power when dealing with the study of equilibrium phase diagram. Within this context, Learning by Confusion has emerged as an interesting, unbiased scheme. The idea behind it briefly consists in iteratively label numerical results in a random way and then train and test a Neural Network; while for a generic random labeling the Network displays low accuracy, the latter shall display a peak when data are divided into a correct, yet unknown way. Here, we propose a generalization of this confusion scheme for systems with more than two phases, for which it was originally proposed. Our construction simply relies on the use of a slightly different Neural Network: from a binary classificator we move to a ternary one, more suitable to detect systems exhibiting three phases. After introducing this construction, we test is onto the free and the interacting Kitaev chain and on the one-dimensional Extended Hubbard model, always finding results compatible with previous works. Our work opens the way to wider use of Learning by Confusion, showing once more the usefulness of Machine Learning to address quantum many-body problems.


---
# The effect of priors on Learning with Restricted Boltzmann Machines

## 先验对受限玻尔兹曼机学习的影响

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02623

arXiv:2412.02623v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Restricted Boltzmann Machines (RBMs) are generative models designed to learn from data with a rich underlying structure. In this work, we explore a teacher-student setting where a student RBM learns from examples generated by a teacher RBM, with a focus on the effect of the unit priors on learning efficiency. We consider a parametric class of priors that interpolate between continuous (Gaussian) and binary variables. This approach models various possible choices of visible units, hidden units, and weights for both the teacher and student RBMs.
  By analyzing the phase diagram of the posterior distribution in both the Bayes optimal and mismatched regimes, we demonstrate the existence of a triple point that defines the critical dataset size necessary for learning through generalization. The critical size is strongly influenced by the properties of the teacher, and thus the data, but is unaffected by the properties of the student RBM. Nevertheless, a prudent choice of student priors can facilitate training by expanding the so-called signal retrieval region, where the machine generalizes effectively.


---
# Iterative variational learning of committor-consistent transition pathways using artificial neural networks

## 使用人工神经网络对commitor一致的过渡路径进行迭代变分学习

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.01947

arXiv:2412.01947v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: This contribution introduces a neural-network-based approach to discover meaningful transition pathways underlying complex biomolecular transformations in coherence with the committor function. The proposed path-committor-consistent artificial neural network (PCCANN) iteratively refines the transition pathway by aligning it to the gradient of the committor. This method addresses the challenges of sampling in molecular dynamics simulations rare events in high-dimensional spaces, which is often limited computationally. Applied to various benchmark potentials and biological processes such as peptide isomerization and protein-model folding, PCCANN successfully reproduces established dynamics and rate constants, while revealing bifurcations and alternate pathways. By enabling precise estimation of transition states and free-energy barriers, this approach provides a robust framework for enhanced-sampling simulations of rare events in complex biomolecular systems.


---
# Amorphous Boron Nitride as an Ultrathin Copper Diffusion Barrier for Advanced Interconnects

## 非晶氮化硼作为用于高级互连的超薄铜扩散屏障

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.01251

arXiv:2402.01251v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: This study focuses on amorphous boron nitride ($\rm \alpha$-BN) as a novel diffusion barrier for advanced semiconductor technology, particularly addressing the critical challenge of copper diffusion in back-end-of-line (BEOL) interconnects. Owing to its ultralow dielectric constant and robust barrier properties, $\rm \alpha$-BN is examined as an alternative to conventional low-k dielectrics. The investigation primarily employs theoretical modeling, using a Gaussian Approximation Potential, to simulate and understand the atomic-level interactions. This machine learning-based approach allows the performance of realistic simulations of amorphous structure of $\rm \alpha$-BN, enabling the exploration of the impact of different film morphologies on barrier efficacy. Furthermore, we studied the electronic and optical properties of the films using a simple Tight-Binding model. In addition to the theoretical studies, we performed diffusion studies of copper through PECVD $\rm \alpha$-BN on Si. The results from both the theoretical and experimental investigations highlight the potential of $\rm \alpha$-BN as a highly effective diffusion barrier, suitable for integration in nanoelectronics. This research shows that $\rm \alpha$-BN is a promising candidate for BEOL interconnects but also demonstrates the synergy of advanced computational models and experimental methods in material innovation for semiconductor applications.


---
# Interpolation and differentiation of alchemical degrees of freedom in machine learning interatomic potentials

## 机器学习原子间势中炼金自由度的插值和微分

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.10746

arXiv:2404.10746v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Machine learning interatomic potentials (MLIPs) have become a workhorse of modern atomistic simulations, and recently published universal MLIPs, pre-trained on large datasets, have demonstrated remarkable accuracy and generalizability. However, the computational cost of MLIPs limits their applicability to chemically disordered systems requiring large simulation cells or to sample-intensive statistical methods. Here, we report the use of continuous and differentiable alchemical degrees of freedom in atomistic materials simulations, exploiting the fact that graph neural network MLIPs represent discrete elements as real-valued tensors. The proposed method introduces alchemical atoms with corresponding weights into the input graph, alongside modifications to the message-passing and readout mechanisms of MLIPs, and allows smooth interpolation between the compositional states of materials. The end-to-end differentiability of MLIPs enables efficient calculation of the gradient of energy with respect to the compositional weights. With this modification, we propose methodologies for optimizing the composition of solid solutions towards target macroscopic properties, characterizing order and disorder in multicomponent oxides, and conducting alchemical free energy simulations to quantify the free energy of vacancy formation and composition changes. The approach offers an avenue for extending the capabilities of universal MLIPs in the modeling of compositional disorder and characterizing the phase stability of complex materials systems.


---
# Unsupervised machine learning for the detection of exotic phases in skyrmion phase diagrams

## 用于检测skyrmion相图中的奇异相的无监督机器学习

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.10943

arXiv:2404.10943v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Undoubtedly, machine learning techniques are being increasingly applied to a wide range of situations in the field of condensed matter. Amongst these techniques, unsupervised techniques are especially attractive, since they imply the possibility of extracting information from the data without previous labeling. In this work, we resort to the technique known as anomaly detection to explore potential exotic phases in skyrmion phase diagrams, using two different algorithms: Principal Component Analysis and Convolutional Autoencoder (CAE). First, we train these algorithms with an artificial dataset of skyrmion lattices constructed from an analytical parametrization, for different magnetizations, skyrmion lattice orientations, and skyrmion radii. We apply the trained algorithms to a set of snapshots obtained from Monte Carlo simulations for three ferromagnetic skyrmion models: two with in-plane Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya (DMI) in the triangular and kagome lattices, and one with an additional out of plane DMI in the kagome lattice. Then, we compare the root mean square error (RMSE) and the binary cross entropy between the input and output snapshots as a function of the external magnetic field and temperature. We find that the RMSE and its variance in the CAE case may be useful to not only detect exotic low temperature phases, but also to differentiate between the characteristic low temperature orderings of a skyrmion phase diagram (helical, skyrmions and ferromagnetic). Moreover, we apply the skyrmion trained CAE to two antiferromagnetic models in the triangular lattice, one that gives rise to antiferromagnetic skyrmions, and the pure exchange antiferromagnetic case. Despite the predictably larger RMSE, we find that, even in these cases, RMSE is also an indicator of different orderings and the emergence of particular features, such as the well-known pseudo-plateau in the pure exchange case.


---
# Neural Thermodynamic Integration: Free Energies from Energy-based Diffusion Models

## 神经热力学积分: 来自基于能量的扩散模型的自由能

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.02313

arXiv:2406.02313v4 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Thermodynamic integration (TI) offers a rigorous method for estimating free-energy differences by integrating over a sequence of interpolating conformational ensembles. However, TI calculations are computationally expensive and typically limited to coupling a small number of degrees of freedom due to the need to sample numerous intermediate ensembles with sufficient conformational-space overlap. In this work, we propose to perform TI along an alchemical pathway represented by a trainable neural network, which we term Neural TI. Critically, we parametrize a time-dependent Hamiltonian interpolating between the interacting and non-interacting systems, and optimize its gradient using a score matching objective. The ability of the resulting energy-based diffusion model to sample all intermediate ensembles allows us to perform TI from a single reference calculation. We apply our method to Lennard-Jones fluids, where we report accurate calculations of the excess chemical potential, demonstrating that Neural TI reproduces the underlying changes in free energy without the need for simulations at interpolating Hamiltonians.


---
# Defect formation in CsSnI$_3$ from Density Functional Theory and Machine Learning

## 基于密度泛函理论和机器学习的CsSnI $_3 $ 缺陷形成

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.07448

arXiv:2411.07448v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Sn-based perovskites as low-toxic materials are actively studied for optoelectronic applications. However, their performance is limited by $p$-type self-doping, which can be suppressed by substitutional doping on the cation sites. In this study, we combine density functional theory (DFT) calculations with machine learning (ML) to develop a predictive model and identify the key descriptors affecting formation energy and charge transition levels of the substitutional dopants in CsSnI$_{3}$. Our DFT calculations create a dataset of formation energies and charge transition levels and show that Y, Sc, Al, Nb, Ba, and Sr are effective dopants that pin the fermi level higher in the band gap, suppressing the $p$-type self-doping. We explore ML algorithms and propose training the random forest regression model to predict the defect formation properties. This work shows the predictive capability of combining DFT with machine learning and provides insights into the important features that determine the defect formation energetics.


---
# Theoretical Studies on Sodium Storage Mechanism in Hard Carbon Anodes of Sodium-Ion Batteries: Molecular Simulations Based on Machine Learning Force Fields

## 钠离子电池硬碳阳极储钠机理的理论研究 -- 基于机器学习力场的分子模拟

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00340

arXiv:2412.00340v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Sodium-ion batteries (SIBs) have garnered significant attention in recent years as a promising alternative to lithium-ion batteries (LIBs) due to their low cost, abundant sodium resources, and excellent cycling performance. Hard carbon materials, characterized by their high specific capacity, outstanding cycling stability, and low cost, have emerged as potential candidates for SIB anodes. However, the sodium storage mechanism in hard carbon anodes remains highly complex, especially in disordered structures, and is yet to be fully understood. To address this, we employed relative machine learning force fields (MLFFs) in conjunction with multiscale simulation techniques to systematically investigate the sodium storage behavior in hard carbon. By integrating simulations, this study provides a detailed exploration of sodium adsorption, intercalation, and filling mechanisms. High-precision, large-scale simulations reveal the dynamic behavior and distribution patterns of sodium ions in hard carbon. The findings not only deepen our understanding of sodium storage mechanisms in hard carbon anodes, but also offer a theoretical foundation for optimizing future SIB designs, while introducing novel simulation methodologies and technical frameworks to enhance battery performance.


---
# Topological analysis of brain dynamical signals reveals signatures of seizure susceptibility

## 脑动力信号的拓扑分析揭示了癫痫发作易感性的特征

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.01911

arXiv:2412.01911v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Epilepsy is known to drastically alter brain dynamics during seizures (ictal periods). However, whether epilepsy may alter brain dynamics during background (non-ictal) periods is less understood. To investigate this, we analyzed the brain activity of epileptic zebrafish as animal models, for two genetic conditions and two fishlines. The recordings were automatically segmented and labeled with machine learning, and then analyzed using Persistent Homology, a method from Topological Data Analysis, which reveals patterns in the topology of brain dynamics in a noise-robust and networkbased manner. We find that ictal and non-ictal periods can be distinguished from the topology of their dynamics, regardless of fishline or genetic condition, which validates our method. Additionally, within a single fishline wild type, we can distinguish the non-ictal periods of seizure-prone and seizure-free individuals. This suggests the presence of topological signatures of the epileptic brain, even during non-ictal periods. In general, our results suggest that Topological Data Analysis can be used as a general quantitative method to screen for dynamical markers of seizure susceptibility also in other species.


---
# Iterative variational learning of committor-consistent transition pathways using artificial neural networks

## 使用人工神经网络对commitor一致的过渡路径进行迭代变分学习

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.01947

arXiv:2412.01947v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: This contribution introduces a neural-network-based approach to discover meaningful transition pathways underlying complex biomolecular transformations in coherence with the committor function. The proposed path-committor-consistent artificial neural network (PCCANN) iteratively refines the transition pathway by aligning it to the gradient of the committor. This method addresses the challenges of sampling in molecular dynamics simulations rare events in high-dimensional spaces, which is often limited computationally. Applied to various benchmark potentials and biological processes such as peptide isomerization and protein-model folding, PCCANN successfully reproduces established dynamics and rate constants, while revealing bifurcations and alternate pathways. By enabling precise estimation of transition states and free-energy barriers, this approach provides a robust framework for enhanced-sampling simulations of rare events in complex biomolecular systems.


---
# Learning a Filtered Backprojection Reconstruction Method for Photoacoustic Computed Tomography with Hemispherical Measurement Geometries

## 学习具有半球形测量几何形状的光声计算机断层扫描的滤波反投影重建方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.01971

arXiv:2412.01971v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: In certain three-dimensional (3D) applications of photoacoustic computed tomography (PACT), including \textit{in vivo} breast imaging, hemispherical measurement apertures that enclose the object within their convex hull are employed for data acquisition. Data acquired with such measurement geometries are referred to as \textit{half-scan} data, as only half of a complete spherical measurement aperture is employed. Although previous studies have demonstrated that half-scan data can uniquely and stably reconstruct the sought-after object, no closed-form reconstruction formula for use with half-scan data has been reported. To address this, a semi-analytic reconstruction method in the form of filtered backprojection (FBP), referred to as the half-scan FBP method, is developed in this work. Because the explicit form of the filtering operation in the half-scan FBP method is not currently known, a learning-based method is proposed to approximate it. The proposed method is systematically investigated by use of virtual imaging studies of 3D breast PACT that employ ensembles of numerical breast phantoms and a physics-based model of the data acquisition process. The method is subsequently applied to experimental data acquired in an \textit{in vivo} breast PACT study. The results confirm that the half-scan FBP method can accurately reconstruct 3D images from half-scan data. Importantly, because the sought-after inverse mapping is well-posed, the reconstruction method remains accurate even when applied to data that differ considerably from those employed to learn the filtering operation.


---
# Pooling Solvent Mixtures for Solvation Free Energy Predictions

## 混合溶剂混合物用于溶剂化自由能预测

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.01982

arXiv:2412.01982v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Solvation free energy is an important design parameter in reaction kinetics and separation processes, making it a critical property to predict during process development. In previous research, directed message passing neural networks (D-MPNN) have successfully been used to predict solvation free energies and enthalpies in organic solvents. However, solvent mixtures provide greater flexibility for optimizing solvent interactions than monosolvents. This work aims to extend our previous models to mixtures. To handle mixtures in a permutation invariant manner we propose a pooling function; MolPool. With this pooling function, the machine learning models can learn and predict properties for an arbitrary number of molecules. The novel SolProp-mix software that applies MolPool to D-MPNN was compared to state-of-the-art architectures for predicting mixture properties and validated with our new database of COSMOtherm calculations; BinarySolv-QM. To improve predictions towards experimental accuracy, the network was then fine-tuned on experimental data in monosolvents. To demonstrate the benefit of this transfer learning methodology, experimental datasets of solvation free energies in binary (BinarySolv-Exp) and ternary (TernarySolv-Exp) solvent mixtures were compiled from data on vapor-liquid equilibria and activity coefficients. The neural network performed better than COSMOtherm calculations with an MAE of 0.25 kcal/mol and an RMSE of 0.37 kcal/mol for non-aqueous mixed solvents. Additionally, the ability to capture trends for a varying mixture composition was validated successfully. Our model's ability to accurately predict mixture properties from the combination of in silico data and pure component experimental data is promising given the scarcity of experimental data for mixtures in many fields.


---
# Lessons learned from establishing a rooftop photovoltaic system crowdsourced by students and employees at Aarhus University

## 在奥胡斯大学建立由学生和员工众包的屋顶光伏系统的经验教训

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02258

arXiv:2412.02258v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Energy communities are promoted in the European legislation as a strategy to enable citizen participation in the energy transition. Solar photovoltaic (PV) systems, due to their distributed nature, present an opportunity to create such communities. At Aarhus University (Denmark), we have established an energy community consisting of a 98-kW rooftop solar PV installation, crowdsourced by students and employees of the university. The participants can buy one or several shares of the installation (which is divided into 900 shares), the electricity is consumed by the university, and the shareowners receive some economic compensation every year. The road to establishing this energy community has been rough, and we have gathered many learnings. In this manuscript, we present the 10 largest challenges which might arise when setting up a university energy community and our particular approach to facing them. Sharing these learnings might pave the way for those willing to establish their own energy community. We also include policy recommendations at a European, national, and municipality levels to facilitate the deployment of energy communities


---
# MEP-Net: Generating Solutions to Scientific Problems with Limited Knowledge by Maximum Entropy Principle

## Mep-net: 通过最大熵原理生成有限知识的科学问题的解决方案

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02090

arXiv:2412.02090v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Maximum entropy principle (MEP) offers an effective and unbiased approach to inferring unknown probability distributions when faced with incomplete information, while neural networks provide the flexibility to learn complex distributions from data. This paper proposes a novel neural network architecture, the MEP-Net, which combines the MEP with neural networks to generate probability distributions from moment constraints. We also provide a comprehensive overview of the fundamentals of the maximum entropy principle, its mathematical formulations, and a rigorous justification for its applicability for non-equilibrium systems based on the large deviations principle. Through fruitful numerical experiments, we demonstrate that the MEP-Net can be particularly useful in modeling the evolution of probability distributions in biochemical reaction networks and in generating complex distributions from data.


---
# Benchmarking symbolic regression constant optimization schemes

## 基准测试符号回归常数优化方案

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02126

arXiv:2412.02126v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Symbolic regression is a machine learning technique, and it has seen many advancements in recent years, especially in genetic programming approaches (GPSR). Furthermore, it has been known for many years that constant optimization of parameters, during the evolutionary search, greatly increases GPSR performance However, different authors approach such tasks differently and no consensus exists regarding which methods perform best. In this work, we evaluate eight different parameter optimization methods, applied during evolutionary search, over ten known benchmark problems, in two different scenarios. We also propose using an under-explored metric called Tree Edit Distance (TED), aiming to identify symbolic accuracy. In conjunction with classical error measures, we develop a combined analysis of model performance in symbolic regression. We then show that different constant optimization methods perform better in certain scenarios and that there is no overall best choice for every problem. Finally, we discuss how common metric decisions may be biased and appear to generate better models in comparison.


---
# CA-MoE: Channel-Adapted MoE for Incremental Weather Forecasting

## Ca-moe: 用于增量天气预报的通道适应MoE

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02503

arXiv:2412.02503v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Atmospheric science is intricately connected with other fields, e.g., geography and aerospace. Most existing approaches involve training a joint atmospheric and geographic model from scratch, which incurs significant computational costs and overlooks the potential for incremental learning of weather variables across different domains. In this paper, we introduce incremental learning to weather forecasting and propose a novel structure that allows for the flexible expansion of variables within the model. Specifically, our method presents a Channel-Adapted MoE (CA-MoE) that employs a divide-and-conquer strategy. This strategy assigns variable training tasks to different experts by index embedding and reduces computational complexity through a channel-wise Top-K strategy. Experiments conducted on the widely utilized ERA5 dataset reveal that our method, utilizing only approximately 15\% of trainable parameters during the incremental stage, attains performance that is on par with state-of-the-art competitors. Notably, in the context of variable incremental experiments, our method demonstrates negligible issues with catastrophic forgetting.


---
# Bayesian calibration of bubble size dynamics applied to CO2 gas fermenters

## 应用于CO2气体发酵罐的气泡尺寸动力学的贝叶斯校准

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.19636

arXiv:2404.19636v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: To accelerate the scale-up of gaseous CO2 fermentation reactors, computational models need to predict gas-to-liquid mass transfer which requires capturing the bubble size dynamics, i.e. bubble breakup and coalescence. However, the applicability of existing models beyond air-water mixtures remains to be established. Here, an inverse modeling approach, accelerated with a neural network surrogate, calibrates the breakup and coalescence closure models, that are used in class methods for population balance modeling (PBM). The calibration is performed based on experimental results obtained in a CO2-air-water-coflowing bubble column reactor. Bayesian inference is used to account for noise in the experimental dataset and bias in the simulation results. To accurately capture gas holdup and interphase mass transfer, the results show that the breakage rate needs to be increased by one order of magnitude. The inferred model parameters are then used on a separate configuration and shown to also improve bubble size distribution predictions.


---
# OceanCastNet: A Deep Learning Ocean Wave Model with Energy Conservation

## OceanCastNet: 具有能量守恒的深度学习海浪模型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.03848

arXiv:2406.03848v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Traditional wave forecasting models, although based on energy conservation equations, are computationally expensive. On the other hand, existing deep learning geophysical fluid models, while computationally efficient, often suffer from issues such as energy dissipation in long-term forecasts. This paper proposes a novel energy-balanced deep learning wave forecasting model called OceanCastNet (OCN). By incorporating wind fields at the current, previous, and future time steps, as well as wave fields at the current and previous time steps as input variables, OCN maintains energy balance within the model. Furthermore, the model employs adaptive Fourier operators as its core components and designs a masked loss function to better handle the impact of land-sea boundaries. A series of experiments on the ERA5 dataset demonstrate that OCN can achieve short-term forecast accuracy comparable to traditional models while exhibiting an understanding of the wave generation process. In comparative experiments under both normal and extreme conditions, OCN consistently outperforms the widely used WaveWatch III model in the industry. Even after long-term forecasting, OCN maintains a stable and energy-rich state. By further constructing a simple meteorological model, OCN-wind, which considers energy balance, this paper confirms the importance of energy constraints for improving the long-term forecast performance of deep learning meteorological models. This finding provides new ideas for future research on deep learning geophysical fluid models.


---
# Interpolation and differentiation of alchemical degrees of freedom in machine learning interatomic potentials

## 机器学习原子间势中炼金自由度的插值和微分

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.10746

arXiv:2404.10746v3 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Machine learning interatomic potentials (MLIPs) have become a workhorse of modern atomistic simulations, and recently published universal MLIPs, pre-trained on large datasets, have demonstrated remarkable accuracy and generalizability. However, the computational cost of MLIPs limits their applicability to chemically disordered systems requiring large simulation cells or to sample-intensive statistical methods. Here, we report the use of continuous and differentiable alchemical degrees of freedom in atomistic materials simulations, exploiting the fact that graph neural network MLIPs represent discrete elements as real-valued tensors. The proposed method introduces alchemical atoms with corresponding weights into the input graph, alongside modifications to the message-passing and readout mechanisms of MLIPs, and allows smooth interpolation between the compositional states of materials. The end-to-end differentiability of MLIPs enables efficient calculation of the gradient of energy with respect to the compositional weights. With this modification, we propose methodologies for optimizing the composition of solid solutions towards target macroscopic properties, characterizing order and disorder in multicomponent oxides, and conducting alchemical free energy simulations to quantify the free energy of vacancy formation and composition changes. The approach offers an avenue for extending the capabilities of universal MLIPs in the modeling of compositional disorder and characterizing the phase stability of complex materials systems.


---
# Unsupervised machine learning for the detection of exotic phases in skyrmion phase diagrams

## 用于检测skyrmion相图中的奇异相的无监督机器学习

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.10943

arXiv:2404.10943v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Undoubtedly, machine learning techniques are being increasingly applied to a wide range of situations in the field of condensed matter. Amongst these techniques, unsupervised techniques are especially attractive, since they imply the possibility of extracting information from the data without previous labeling. In this work, we resort to the technique known as anomaly detection to explore potential exotic phases in skyrmion phase diagrams, using two different algorithms: Principal Component Analysis and Convolutional Autoencoder (CAE). First, we train these algorithms with an artificial dataset of skyrmion lattices constructed from an analytical parametrization, for different magnetizations, skyrmion lattice orientations, and skyrmion radii. We apply the trained algorithms to a set of snapshots obtained from Monte Carlo simulations for three ferromagnetic skyrmion models: two with in-plane Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya (DMI) in the triangular and kagome lattices, and one with an additional out of plane DMI in the kagome lattice. Then, we compare the root mean square error (RMSE) and the binary cross entropy between the input and output snapshots as a function of the external magnetic field and temperature. We find that the RMSE and its variance in the CAE case may be useful to not only detect exotic low temperature phases, but also to differentiate between the characteristic low temperature orderings of a skyrmion phase diagram (helical, skyrmions and ferromagnetic). Moreover, we apply the skyrmion trained CAE to two antiferromagnetic models in the triangular lattice, one that gives rise to antiferromagnetic skyrmions, and the pure exchange antiferromagnetic case. Despite the predictably larger RMSE, we find that, even in these cases, RMSE is also an indicator of different orderings and the emergence of particular features, such as the well-known pseudo-plateau in the pure exchange case.


---
# Enhancing Quantum Memory Lifetime with Measurement-Free Local Error Correction and Reinforcement Learning

## 通过无测量局部误差校正和强化学习增强量子存储器寿命

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.09524

arXiv:2408.09524v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Reliable quantum computation requires systematic identification and correction of errors that occur and accumulate in quantum hardware. To diagnose and correct such errors, standard quantum error-correcting protocols utilize $\textit{global}$ error information across the system obtained by mid-circuit readout of ancillary qubits. We investigate circuit-level error-correcting protocols that are measurement-free and based on $\textit{local}$ error information. Such a local error correction (LEC) circuit consists of faulty multi-qubit gates to perform both syndrome extraction and ancilla-controlled error removal. We develop and implement a reinforcement learning framework that takes a fixed set of faulty gates as inputs and outputs an optimized LEC circuit. To evaluate this approach, we quantitatively characterize an extension of logical qubit lifetime by a noisy LEC circuit. For the 2D classical Ising model and 4D toric code, our optimized LEC circuit performs better at extending a memory lifetime compared to a conventional LEC circuit based on Toom's rule in a sub-threshold gate error regime. We further show that such circuits can be used to reduce the rate of mid-circuit readouts to preserve a 2D toric code memory. Finally, we discuss the application of the LEC protocol on dissipative preparation of quantum states with topological phases.


---
# Zero-shot forecasting of chaotic systems

## 混沌系统的零射预测

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.15771

arXiv:2409.15771v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Time-series forecasting is a challenging problem that traditionally requires specialized models custom-trained for the specific task at hand. Recently, inspired by the success of large language models, foundation models pre-trained on vast amounts of time-series data from diverse domains have emerged as a promising candidate for general-purpose time-series forecasting. The defining characteristic of these foundation models is their ability to perform zero-shot learning, that is, forecasting a new system from limited context data without explicit re-training or fine-tuning. Here, we evaluate whether the zero-shot learning paradigm extends to the challenging task of forecasting chaotic systems. Across 135 distinct chaotic dynamical systems and $10^8$ timepoints, we find that foundation models produce competitive forecasts compared to custom-trained models (including NBEATS, TiDE, etc.), particularly when training data is limited. Interestingly, even after point forecasts fail, large foundation models are able to preserve the geometric and statistical properties of the chaotic attractors. We attribute this success to foundation models' ability to perform in-context learning and identify context parroting as a simple mechanism used by these models to capture the long-term behavior of chaotic dynamical systems. Our results highlight the potential of foundation models as a tool for probing nonlinear and complex systems.


---
# TRPV4-Gemma-3B: A Method for Discovering Transient Receptor Potential Vanilloid 4 Inhibitors Based on Causal Language Model

## TRPV4-Gemma-3B: 基于因果语言模型的瞬时受体电位香草素4抑制剂发现方法

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-2jddb?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Transient Receptor Potential Vanilloid 4 (TRPV4) functions as a multimodally activated Ca$^{2+}$ permeable, non-selective cation channel involved in osmotic and mechanical cue transduction, playing a significant role in joint pain and inflammatory responses in Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA). The deep learning-driven approach has already been applied to the research of TRPV4 and its inhibitors. Large language models have demonstrated remarkable capabilities in knowledge transfer and downstream tasks, performing excellently even on small datasets of inhibitors. A fine-tuned model, TRPV4-Gemma-3B, was used to generate candidate molecules for de novo design of TRPV4 inhibitors. Additionally, our candidate screening protocol employs standard evaluation methods in small molecule drug discovery, including assessments of drug-likeness, synthetic accessibility, and target-ligand binding affinity. By combining affinity data and molecular fragments, we compared the differences between the sample data and the content generated by TRPV4-Gemma-3B. This further validated that our fine-tuned model successfully captured the structural characteristics of TRPV4 inhibitor molecules. We further validated the affinity between the molecules designed by TRPV4-Gemma-3B and the target using molecular dynamics methods, which also strengthened the reliability of our fine-tuned Gemma-based tool in redesigning TRPV4 inhibitors. In future work, further integrating reinforcement learning and multi-agent approaches to incorporate the diverse structural characteristics exhibited by inhibitor molecules into the alignment of large models will also be of significant importance.


---
# Automated navigation of condensate phase behavior with active machine learning

## 基于主动机器学习的凝结水相行为自动导航

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-frnj3?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Biomolecular condensates are essential functional cellular structures that form through phase separation of macromolecules such as proteins and RNA. Synthetic condensates have recently gathered great interest as they can be engineered to better understand the formation mechanism of these cellular condensates and serve as cell-mimetic platforms to develop novel therapeutic strategies. The complexity of the biomolecular components and their reciprocal interactions, however, makes precise engineering and systematic characterization of condensate formation a challenging endeavor. While constructing phase diagrams is a systematic approach to gain comprehensive insight into phase separation behavior, it is a time-consuming and labor-intensive process. Here, we present an automated platform for efficiently mapping multi-dimensional phase diagrams of condensates. The automated platform incorporates a pipetting system for sample formulation, and an autonomous confocal microscope for particle property analysis and characterization. Active machine learning – which allows iterative model improvement – is used to learn from previous experiments and steer future experiments towards an efficient exploration of phase boundaries. The versatility of the pipeline is demonstrated by showcasing its ability to rapidly explore the phase behavior of various polypeptides of opposite charge across formulations, producing detailed and reproducible multidimensional phase diagrams. Beyond identifying phase boundaries, the platform also provides information-rich data, enabling quantification of key condensate properties such as particle size, count, and volume fraction – adding functional insights to phase diagrams. This self-driven platform is robust and generalizable, allowing easy extension to any given combination of condensate-forming materials, ultimately providing key insights into their formation and characteristics.


---
# Machine Vision with CMOS based Hyperspectral Image Sensor Enables Meat Freshness Sensing

## 机器视觉与基于CMOS的高光谱图像传感器实现肉类新鲜度传感

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5551638/latest

Imaging spectral information and analyzing its properties of materials have become intriguing for consumer electronics toward food inspection, beauty care and etc. Those sensory physical quantities are difficult to quantify. Hyperspectral cameras, which capture its figure and spectral information simultaneously, can be a good candidate for non-destructive remote sensing. In this study, with the aid of a hyperspectral imaging system (HIS) and machine learning (ML), meat freshness is converted into a measurable physical quantity, i.e., freshness index (FI). FI is defined from meat fluorescence, which has a strong correlation with bacterial density. Combined with ML techniques, hyperspectral data are processed more efficiently. By employing linear discriminant and quadratic component analyses, FI can be estimated from its decision boundary after hyperspectral data are obtained at an unknown freshness state. We demonstrate HIS grafted with ML performs as artificial eye and brain which is advanced machine vision for consumer electronics including refrigerators and smartphones. Advanced sensing versatility utilized by computational sensing systems allows hyper-personalization and hyper-customization of human life.


---
# Large language models enable high-throughput mining and generation of antimicrobial peptides against clinical superbugs

## 大型语言模型可实现针对临床超级细菌的抗微生物肽的高通量挖掘和生成

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-4690529/latest

The discovery of novel antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) against clinical superbugs is urgently needed to address the ongoing antibiotic resistance crisis. Here, a pre-trained protein large language model (LLM), ProteoGPT was established and further developed into multiple specialized sub-LLMs to assemble a sequential pipeline. This pipeline enables rapid screening across hundreds of millions of peptide sequences, ensuring potent antimicrobial activity and minimizing cytotoxic risks. Through transfer learning, we endowed the LLMs with different domain-specific knowledge to simultaneously achieve high-throughput mining and generation of AMPs within a unified methodological framework. Notably, both mined and generated AMPs exhibit reduced susceptibility to resistance development in ICU-derived superbugs, and comparable or superior therapeutic efficacy and anti-inflammatory properties compared to clinical antibiotics, without causing organ damage and disrupting gut microbiota.


---
# On the integration of large scale time seriesdistance matrices into deep visual analytic tools

## 关于将大规模时间序列距离矩阵集成到深度视觉分析工具中

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5196699/latest

Time series are essential for modelling a lot of activities such as software behavior, heart beats per time, business processes. The analysis of the series data can prevent errors, boost profits, and improve the understanding of behaviors. Among the many techniques available, we can find Deep Learning techniques and Data Mining techniques. In Data Mining, distance matrices between subsequences (similarity matrices, recurrence plots) have already shown their potential on fast large-scale time series behavior analysis. In the Deep Learning, there exists different tools for analyzing the models embedding space for getting insights of the data behavior. DeepVATS is a tool for large time series analysis that allows the visual interaction within the embedding space (latent space) of Deep Learning models and the original data. The training and analysis of the model may result on a large use of computational resources, resulting in a lack of interactivity. To solve this issue, we integrate distance matrices plots within the tool. The incorporation of these plots with the associated downsampling techniques makes DeepVATS a more efficient and user-friendly tool for a first quick analysis of the data, achieving runtimes reductions of up to \(10^4\) seconds, allowing fast preliminary analysis of datasets of up to 7M elements. Also, this incorporation allows us to detect trends, extending its capabilities. The new functionality is tested in three use cases: the M-Toy synthetic dataset for anomaly detection, the S3 synthetic dataset for trend detection and the real-world dataset Pulsus Paradoxus for anomaly checking.


---
# Protein Language Model Supervised Scalable Approach for Diverse and Designable Protein Motif-Scaffolding with GPDL

## 蛋白质语言模型监督的可扩展方法，用于使用GPDL的多样化和可设计的蛋白质基序支架

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5450034/latest

Proteins perform essential roles in numerous biological processes, largely driven by the three-dimensional structure of several key motif residues. Recently, a variety of energy-based and machine learning backbone generation methods have been developed to solve the motif-scaffolding task. However, it is still challenging to generate diverse and accurate scaffold structures around motifs for models either fine-tuned pre-trained multiple sequence alignment-based (MSA-based) structure prediction models or trained from scratch. Here, we introduced Generative Protein Design by Language model (GPDL) for effectively replacing traditional MSA-based pretraining. Using our scalable design strategy, GPDL successfully solved 22 out of 24 benchmark problems and outperformed other methods by generating 33.5% more unique designable clusters than RFdiffusion. This demonstrates that our approach can generate accurate and physically plausible structures across diverse protein design scenarios. GPDL also showed strong robustness in orphan proteins that have low sequence similarity with the training set. Our approach underscores the promise of protein language models in protein design and has the potential to accelerate the discovery of novel functional proteins for a wide range of biological and therapeutic applications.


---
# The Application of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning in Archaeology: Methodological Challenges and a Case Study from Poland

## 人工智能和机器学习在考古学中的应用: 方法论挑战和来自波兰的案例研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5402277/latest

The use of artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) in archaeology has rapidly gained momentum due to its potential to automate and enhance the efficiency of data analysis. This paper examines the application of neural networks for processing Digital Terrain Model (DTM) data to detect archaeological sites in Poland. The study focuses on identifying trenches, mounds, and charcoal kilns through automated image segmentation, utilizing a U-Net convolutional neural network. While the results demonstrate the promise of AI in improving archaeological site detection, various challenges are highlighted, including data quality, feature misclassification, and regional variability in model performance. Additionally, the research underscores the need for interdisciplinary collaboration, as successful implementation requires expertise in archaeology, geospatial analysis, and programming. Despite AI&amp;rsquo;s potential for time-saving, significant effort is required to ensure accurate annotations and avoid over-reliance on the technology. The case study provides valuable insights into the complexities of applying AI to large-scale archaeological datasets and raises important questions about the limitations and future development of these methods. This paper concludes that while AI offers powerful tools for archaeological research, careful consideration must be given to its methodological challenges. Standardizing procedures and improving data quality will be critical to fully exploiting AI's potential in archaeology.


---
# Visual Impairment Prevention by Early Detection of Diabetic Retinopathy Based on Stacked Auto- Encoder

## 基于堆叠自动编码器的糖尿病视网膜病变早期检测预防视力损害

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5133023/latest

Diabetic retinopathy (DR) presents a significant concern among diabetic patients, often leading to vision impairment or blindness if left untreated. Traditional diagnosis methods are prone to human error, necessitating accurate alternatives. While various computer-aided systems have been developed to assist in DR detection, there remains a need for accurate and efficient methods to classify its stages. In this study, we propose a novel approach utilizing enhanced stacked auto-encoders for the detection and classification of DR stages. The stages are classified into five categories: normal, mild, moderate, severe, and proliferative. Unlike traditional CNN approaches, our method offers improved reliability by reducing time complexity, minimizing errors, and enhancing noise reduction. Leveraging a comprehensive dataset from KAGGLE containing 35,126 retinal fundus images across five DR stages, our proposed model demonstrates superior accuracy compared to existing deep learning algorithms. Data augmentation techniques address class imbalance, while SAEs facilitate accurate classification through layer-wise unsupervised pre-training and supervised fine-tuning. We evaluate our model's performance using rigorous quantitative measures, including accuracy, recall, precision, and F1-score, highlighting its effectiveness in early disease diagnosis and prevention of blindness. Experimental results across different training/testing ratios (50:50, 60:40, 70:30, and 75:25) showcase the model's robustness. The highest accuracy achieved during training was 93%, while testing accuracy reached 88% on a training/testing ratio of 75:25. Comparative analysis underscores the model's superiority over existing methods, positioning it as a promising tool for early-stage DR detection and blindness prevention.


---
# A Machine Learning Model Predicts Future Infections in Elderly Patients in the Intensive Care Unit Who Carry Carbapenem-Resistant Enterobacteriaceae by Analyzing Easily Accessible Electronic Medical Records.

## 机器学习模型通过分析易于访问的电子病历来预测重症监护病房中携带耐碳青霉烯类肠杆菌科细菌的老年患者的未来感染。

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5393028/latest

Background: The prevalence of carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae (CRE) presents a significant challenge in clinical anti-infective therapy among older adults in intensive care unit (ICU). Therefore, finding valid methods to rapidly identify patients with a high risk of CRE infection is essential. Creating a fully automated score based on a machine-learning algorithm may be a method to quickly predict the incidence of subsequent CRE infection in CRE Intestinal Carriers among older adults in the ICU.
Methods:Older patients with positive CRE rectal swab screening were identified using electronic medical records from April 1, 2020, and April 31, 2024. Intestinal carriers who acquired CRE infections were compared to those who did not develop CRE infections. A least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) was used to screen for essential features associated with CRE infection. Finally, three features (mechanical ventilation &ge;96h, tigecycline exposure, SOFA score) were used to establish models. Four models, logistic regression model (LR), decision tree (DT), naive Bayes model (NBM), and support vector machine (SVM) classifier, were trained to establish a prediction model and a nomogram. The model's discriminatory capability was evaluated by determining the area under the curve (AUC). Additionally, calibration, decision curve analyses (DCA), and the bootstrapping validation method were conducted to assess the model further.
Result: Of the 1433 patients, CRE colonized 71, and 28 developed CRE infection, of whom 13 developed CRE bloodstream infection (BSI). LR outperformed other classifier models in data and achieved the lowest Brier Score. AUC and the bootstrap value of the developed nomogram were 0.862(95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.780&ndash;0.943) and 0.862 (95% CI: 0.776&ndash;0.933), respectively. Besides, the calibration curve showed good consistency between the actual diagnosed CRE infection and the predicted probability, and DCA showed that if the threshold probability of CRE infection was between 42% and 98%, using the proposed nomogram to predict subsequent CRE infection in CRE intestinal carriers would obtain a net benefit.
Conclusions:Our analysis revealed that this model would help in the individualized evaluation of the necessity of CRE de-colonization and inform strategies to eliminate the need for CRE infection.


---
# Comparative Analysis of Deep Learning Models for Plant Disease Detection

## 用于植物病害检测的深度学习模型比较分析

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5348075/latest

The detection of plant diseases through deep learning models repre- sents a significant advancement in agricultural management. This study pro- vides a comprehensive accuracy comparison of four prominent deep learning models&amp;mdash;Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN), AlexNet, DenseNet, and VGG16&amp;mdash;for identifying plant diseases from leaf images. Leveraging the PlantVillage dataset, which includes over 11,254 images of healthy and dis- eased leaves, the research investigates the strengths and limitations of each model in terms of accuracy, feature extraction, and classification performance. DenseNet's densely connected architecture and VGG16's deep layers are high- lighted for their superior ability to handle complex patterns in diseased leaves. The study demonstrates that DenseNet achieves the highest accuracy, making it a viable solution for real-time disease detection in precision agriculture. By comparing these models, the research aims to guide the selection of the most effective deep learning approach for improving plant health monitoring.


---
# &nbsp;Examining the Effectiveness of an Educational and Assessment Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation Simulator Using Extended Reality and Artificial Intelligence Technology in Red Crescent Rescuers&nbsp;

## 在红新月会救援人员中使用扩展现实和人工智能技术检查教育和评估心肺复苏模拟器的有效性

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5466390/latest

Introduction: The advancement of technology today has made it essential to train Red Crescent rescuers using innovative learning tools, such as Extended Reality (XR) and Artificial Intelligence (AI). This study aimed to examine the effectiveness of an educational and assessment CPR (Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation) simulator using modern technologies among Red Crescent rescuers.Methodology: This interventional cross-sectional study was conducted between 2023 and 2024 in Iran. The study population consisted of rescuers in Tehran. The simple random sampling method was used. Initially, a pre-test was administered to two groups of 15 participants: one received traditional training and the other received modern XR-based training. Following the training, both groups underwent tests in four stages, with each stage one week apart. The performance data during the resuscitation process were collected using various sensors, image processing cameras, virtual reality (VR) glasses, smart mannequins, robotic components, a central microcontroller processor, trackers, and other smart simulator equipment. The data were evaluated quantitatively and qualitatively in accordance with the standards of the international OSCE (Objective Structured Clinical Examination).Findings: The results showed that groups trained using simulators demonstrated a significant improvement in post-test scores compared to pre-test scores. In groups that had no prior CPR training, the simulator-based training increased the average scores by 9.54, which was significantly higher than the 3.55 increase observed in the traditional training method. The group trained with the simulator showed an average score increase of 10.64, which was much higher than the 3.89 increase in the traditional training method.Conclusion The use of XR simulators and AI led to a significant improvement in the practical skills of rescuers in cardiopulmonary resuscitation. It is recommended that this technology be widely implemented in educational programs. For those who have already undergone traditional training, complementary courses using simulators could further enhance their skills and knowledge.


---
# Mapping Global Cereal Flow at Subnational Scales Unveils Key Insights for Food Systems Resilience

## 在国家以下各级绘制全球谷物流量图揭示了粮食系统复原力的关键见解

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5204730/latest

Enhancing food systems resilience requires a comprehensive understanding of food distribution along global supply chains. This research maps spatially resolved networks of global cereal flows across 3,536 subnational regions within 195 countries employing a modeling pipeline comprising machine learning, data processing, and calibration algorithms to downscale national cereal flow data. The study identifies pivotal exporting and importing regions and evaluates the implications of cereal flows for food systems resilience. It reveals insights into regional self-sufficiency and trade dependencies, such as higher self-sufficiency in the United States, Canada, and India, where domestic inflows dominate consumption, versus regions in Southeast Asia and Europe that rely on a complex mix of domestic and international inflows. The investigation uncovers regional concentration in cereal inflows and outflows at both national and subnational scales, emphasizing the importance of nuanced supply chain analysis to reinforce regional resilience and to adapt to challenges posed by climate change.


---
# A Novel Multi-Input Neural Network Model for MicroRNA Target-Site Detection

## 用于MicroRNA靶位点检测的新型多输入神经网络模型

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5556309/latest

Purpose: MicroRNAs are tiny non-coding RNA sequences that regulate gene expressions and play crucial roles in controlling cell activities. They function by binding to their target messenger RNAs (mRNAs) and suppressing protein synthesis. Detecting the binding location of a microRNA is an important step towards discovering microRNA functions. Given the many possibilities that a microRNA can bind to an mRNA, microRNA target-site detection is a challenging task in vivo and in vitro; from time and cost limitations of experimental methods to high false positive rates of computational methods.&amp;nbsp;
Methods: In this paper, we propose a multi-input neural network-based algorithm that yields high recall and precision results simultaneously. Moreover, we designed a Dynamic Programming(DP) algorithm to predict the duplex structure of microRNA target-site, specific to the context of these sequences. The predicted duplex structures, substructures resulting from the DP algorithm, minimum free energy (MFE) of the substructures, and a probabilistic image of possible base pairs in the duplex are all fed in parallel into our algorithm to learn a comprehensive and precise model.&amp;nbsp;
Results and Conclusions: Our method on an experimentally validated test set, detects target-sites with AUPRC of 0.9373, Precision of 0.8725, Recall of 0.8703, and outperforms several commonly used computational methods of microRNA target predictions. In addition, using the duplex structure, MFE, and binding probabilities, rather than the nucleotide sequences of the microRNA and targetsites, enables our model to generalize beyond specific sequence contexts and perform well on sequentially distant samples. The source code for our algorithm and the accompanying datasets are freely accessible on Github at: https://github.com/mohebbimg/minn.git


---
# Activity Cliff-Informed Contrastive Learning for Molecular Property Prediction

## 用于分子特性预测的活动悬崖信息对比学习

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-2988283/latest

Modeling molecular activity and quantitative structure-activity relationships of chemical compounds is critical in drug design. Graph neural networks, which utilize molecular structures as frames, have shown success in assessing the biological activity of chemical compounds, guiding the selection and optimization of candidates for further development. However, current models often overlook activity cliffs (ACs)&mdash;cases where structurally similar molecules exhibit different bioactivities&mdash;due to latent spaces primarily optimized for structural features. Here, we introduce AC-awareness (ACA), an inductive bias designed to enhance molecular representation learning for activity modeling. The ACA jointly optimizes metric learning in the latent space and task performance in the target space, making models more sensitive to ACs. We develop ACANET, an AC-informed contrastive learning approach that can be integrated with any graph neural network. Experiments on 39 benchmark datasets demonstrate that AC-informed representations of chemical compounds consistently outperform standard models in bioactivity prediction across both regression and classification tasks. AC-informedmodels show strong performance in predicting pharmacokinetic and safety-relevant molecular properties. ACA paves the way toward activity-informed molecular representations, providing a valuable tool for the early stages of lead compound identification, refinement, and virtual screening.


---
# Brain Resilience to Targeted Attack of Resting BOLD Networks as a Measure of Cognitive Reserve

## 大脑对静息BOLD网络的针对性攻击的适应能力作为认知储备的衡量标准

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5356022/latest

Recent advancements in connectome analyses have enabled more precise measurements of brain network integrity. Identifying neural measures that can operate as mechanisms of cognitive reserve (CR) is integral for the study of individual variability in age-related cognitive changes. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that network resilience, or the network's ability to maintain functionality when facing internal or external perturbations that cause damage or error, can function as a CR candidate, modifying the relationship between cognitive and brain changes in a lifespan cohort of cognitively healthy adults. One hundred cognitively healthy older adults from the Reference Ability Neural Network (RANN) longitudinal lifespan cohort (50-80 years) underwent resting-state fMRI and neuropsychological testing at baseline and five-year follow-up. Using undirected weighted adjacency matrices created from the Schaefer et al. (2018) 400-parcellation atlas and 19 additional subcortical regions (419 nodes in total), whole-brain network resilience was assessed through a targeted attack approach, where nodes were sequentially removed by nodal strength and resilience defined as the iteration of the steepest slope in the largest connected component (LCC) decay. We observed that brain resilience (BR) moderated the effect of cortical thickness (CT) changes on longitudinal changes in Fluid Reasoning performance, even after adjusting for baseline differences, demographic factors, and the initial LCC of the unlesioned matrix, indicating that individuals with greater resilience were less sensitive to the effect of cortical thickness changes on changes in cognition. These findings support the use of targeted attack as a measure of cognitive reserve, suggesting that higher brain network resilience may allow individuals with reduced brain integrity to better cope with structural loss and maintain cognitive function.


---
# A Smart Manufacturing Paradigm for Robotic WeldingProcess Optimization through Machine Learning

## 通过机器学习优化机器人焊接工艺的智能制造范例

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-4978740/latest

The welding process has significant importance across several sectors, as it guarantees integrated components&rsquo; structuralsoundness and dependability. Robotic welding, distinguished by the use of automated procedures facilitated by robotic arms,has garnered considerable recognition due to its exceptional accuracy and productivity. The conventional techniques needhelp attaining the most favourable welding results due to workpiece location and trajectory accuracy. The need arises for theadvancement of sophisticated optimization methodologies. This paper presents a smart manufacturing paradigm to tackle theproblem using Reinforcement Learning for Robotic Welding Process Optimization (RL-RWPO). The RL-RWPO frameworkcombines Vision-Based and CAD-Based methodologies, facilitating a holistic comprehension of the workpiece and its intendedarrangement. Using 3-D calibration and workpiece placement techniques significantly improves the precision of weldingprocesses. Reinforcement Learning is used in trajectory optimization to ensure accurate and efficient welding operations. Theresults of the simulation indicate significant enhancements, as seen by the average Weld Seam Quality of 93.27%, WeldingSpeed of 50.51 mm/s, Weld Penetration Depth of 5.25 mm, Trajectory Accuracy of 3.04 mm, and Welding Efficiency of 91.52%.The RL-RWPO method can improve the effectiveness and excellence of robotic welding practices in several industrial sectors.


---
# Identifying Worker and Workplace Predictors of Life Satisfaction in Age-Sex Sub- Populations: An &ldquo;Emelometrics&rdquo; Approach

## 识别年龄性别亚群中生活满意度的工人和工作场所预测因素: “电子计量学” 方法

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5491341/latest

The paper applies a blend of econometric and machine learning techniques to individual-level data from the 2008 National Study of the Changing Workforce to identify covariates that appear to predict life satisfaction across four age-sex sub-populations; specifically, females age &amp;lt; 49; females age 49+; males age &amp;lt; 49; and males age 49+. Covariates such as logged absolute earnings, stress, sleep troubles, job satisfaction, marital status, depression, health status, job physicality, and some types of workplace flexibilities and are among the strongest predictors of life satisfaction across the sub-populations. The findings largely prevail though a wide array of sensitivity analyses, including alternative specifications and alternative estimation strategies, among them exhaustive-search algorithms and variable importance results from random forest algorithms. Prediction results from confusion matrices are reported for all binary-response models alongside coefficient estimates (where possible); the logit models delivered the best prediction accuracy.
JEL Classifications: J28, J30, J32, J,63, J81


---
# Using Virtual Reality to Enhance Anatomy Education for Pre-matriculation Medical Students: An Assessment of Learning Outcomes Using a New Teaching Modality

## 使用虚拟现实来增强预科医学生的解剖学教育: 使用新的教学方式评估学习成果

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5257129/latest

Introduction Virtual Reality (VR) is emerging as an innovative tool in medical education, offering interactive and immersive learning experiences. In contrast, traditional methods involve live cadaveric dissections as well as video-based learning with cadaveric focus, anatomical models, and lectures. This study aims to compare the engagement and learning outcomes of pre-matriculation medical students using VR versus the established video-based methods, reflecting the anatomy curriculum typically provided without live cadaveric dissection.Methods The study included 94 pre-matriculation undergraduate students at the Sophie Davis School of Biomedical Education/CUNY School of Medicine. The study employed a randomized controlled trial, dividing the students into two groups. The control group received traditional anatomy education, which included cadaver dissection videos, anatomical models, and lectures, while the experimental group utilized VR-based learning simulations. Both groups studied osteology and muscular attachments of the lower limb and pelvis. Various assessments and surveys were administered to measure learning outcomes and student motivation. The first survey captured demographic information. The second survey assessed student motivation using a revised version of the Instructional Materials Motivation Survey (rIMMS), specifically adapted for VR learning. The third assessment consisted of identical pre and posttests to evaluate learning outcomes.Results Seventy-four students were included in the final analysis. Significant improvements were observed in all four components of the rIMMS: attention, relevance, confidence, and satisfaction, in the VR group, as demonstrated by Mann-Whitney U tests. This highlights the substantial impact of the VR intervention on student motivation across these key areas, underscoring the potential of VR in enhancing motivation and learning outcomes in medical anatomy education. Both groups showed significant improvement between pre and post-tests. The experimental group demonstrated a positive correlation with the VR intervention. However, the control group exhibited a higher mean score increase, especially among students with prior anatomy experience.Conclusion The findings suggest that VR can improve both tangible learning outcomes and student motivation, making it a valuable addition to medical education.


---
# Electronic Medical Record application with Artificial Intelligence in supporting the clinical learning of professional doctoral students: findings of a mixed-method approach

## 人工智能在支持专业博士生临床学习中的电子病历应用: 混合方法的发现

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5493553/latest

In this study, we evaluated the benefits of an Electronic Medical Record application with Artificial Intelligence (EMRAI) in supporting the clinical learning of professional doctor students (co-assistants) at Gadjah Mada University. The EMRAI was designed to overcome the limitations of filling in medical records and improve diagnosing accuracy. We used mixed methods in this study: a quasi-experimental design for quantitative analysis and focus group discussions (FGD) for qualitative analysis.  The research participants included 60 students divided into experimental (30 students) and control (30 students) groups using the EMRAI and paper medical records, respectively. The results showed that the experimental group had a significantly higher average post-test score than the control group (91.80 vs. 71.42, respectively; P&amp;thinsp;&amp;lt;&amp;thinsp;0.05). FGDs revealed that EMRAI helps in diagnosis enforcement, critical thinking, and medical documentation and improves the clinical reasoning and professionalism of students. Students provided feedback for the further development of the EMRAI, including improved user interfaces and interactive features. In conclusion, the EMRAI had a positive effect on improving students&amp;rsquo; clinical competence; however, it requires additional development to improve functionality and accessibility. Its implementation can help address students&amp;rsquo; challenges in completing medical records, enhancing clinical skills, promoting technological learning innovations, and reducing medical errors while improving the quality of healthcare services. Therefore, research recommendations include assessing the effect of the EMRAI on other aspects of clinical learning, involving a more diverse population, and a longer duration of research for long-term observation.


---
# Shift Work Schedules Alter Immune Cell Regulation and Accelerate Cognitive Impairment during Aging

## 轮班工作时间表会改变免疫细胞调节并加速衰老过程中的认知障碍

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5242267/latest

Background: Disturbances of the sleep-wake cycle and other circadian rhythms typically precede the age-related deficits in learning and memory, suggesting that these alterations in circadian timekeeping may contribute to the progressive cognitive decline during aging. The present study examined the role of immune cell activation and inflammation in the link between circadian rhythm dysregulation and cognitive impairment in aging.Methods: C57Bl/6J mice were exposed to shifted light-dark (LD) cycles (12hr advance/5d) during early adulthood (from &amp;asymp;&amp;thinsp;4-6mo) or continuously to a &amp;ldquo;fixed&amp;rdquo; LD12:12 schedule. At middle age (13-14mo), the long-term effects of circadian rhythm dysregulation on cognitive performance, immune cell regulation and hippocampal microglia were analyzed using behavioral, flow cytometry and immunohistochemical assays.Results: Entrainment of the activity rhythm was stable in all mice on a fixed LD 12:12 cycle but was fully compromised during exposure to shifted LD cycles. Even during &amp;ldquo;post-treatment&amp;rdquo; exposure to standard LD 12:12 conditions, re-entrainment in shifted LD mice was marked by altered patterns of entrainment and increased day-to-day variability in activity onset times that persisted into middle-age. These alterations in light-dark entrainment were closely associated with dramatic impairment in the Barnes maze test for the entire group of shifted LD mice at middle age, well before cognitive decline was first observed in aged (18-22mo) animals maintained on fixed LD cycles. In conjunction with the effects of circadian dysregulation on cognition, shifted LD mice at middle age were distinguished by significant expansion of splenic B cells and B cell subtypes expressing the activation marker CD69 or inflammatory marker MHC Class II Invariant peptide (CLIP), differential increases in CLIP+, 41BB-Ligand+, and CD74&amp;thinsp;+&amp;thinsp;B cells in the meningeal lymphatics, alterations in splenic T cell subtypes, and increased number and altered functional state of microglia in the dentate gyrus. In shifted LD mice, the expansion in splenic B cells was negatively correlated with cognitive performance; when B cell numbers were higher, performance was worse in the Barnes maze. These results indicate that disordered circadian timekeeping associated with early exposure to shift work-like schedules alone accelerates cognitive decline during aging in conjunction with altered regulation of immune cells and microglia in the brain.


---
# MAEL: Meta-Active Semi-Supervised Ensemble Learning Model for DDoS Attack Detection

## MAEL: 用于DDoS攻击检测的元主动半监督集成学习模型

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5551454/latest

Cyberattacks against businesses have significantly increased in recent years, causing significant financial losses as well as privacy violations. Because of their harmful consequences on network infrastructure, including the depletion of computational resources and the saturation of communication channels, Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks stand out among these threats. In order to protect big networks, it is now essential to create effective ways to identify and stop DDoS attacks. However, using supervised learning models in DDoS attacks detection seems to be no longer appropriate, taking in consideration the fast growth of DDoS attacks in style and frequency. It is advised to use online semi-supervised learning models for identifying misbehaving flows and probable DDoS attacks by extending knowledge of labeled flows across unlabeled flows using graph-based learning models. Graph Neural Networks (GNNs), a subset of Neural Networks, excel in processing graph-structured data, offering promising avenues for innovation in this domain.&amp;nbsp;
This paper proposes an efficient GNN-based approach to detect DDoS attacks when flows are partially labeled. It involves a sequential application of multiple GNN layers to compute flow embeddings, capturing relevant information about the hosts involved in forwarding network traffic. These flow embeddings serve as inputs to a binary classifier, which predicts the likely label of each flow. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach, showcasing notable improvements in key performance metrics such as accuracy, precision, and F1-Score.


---
# Enhancing Student Feedback in Data Science Education: Harnessing the Power of AI-Generated Approaches

## 加强数据科学教育中的学生反馈: 利用AI生成方法的力量

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5505390/latest

Data science has emerged as an important field in higher education, presenting complex challenges for students due to its interdisciplinary nature involving statistical and computational concepts. In previous research, we introduced the rDSA system to support data science students during formative assessments by providing exercises and feedback. As known, formative assessment has evolved from an &ldquo;interim&rdquo; evaluation method into a continuous process that enhances student understanding and informs educators to adjust their teaching strategies. It is closely linked to scaffolding, i.e., the method aiming to guide students from their current knowledge to the skills they can develop next. The research reported in this paper builds on previous findings that showed improved learning outcomes and good student engagement. We explored how to enhance student feedback by incorporating Large Language Models (LLMs) with traditional AI into the rDSA system. The results show that students extensively used the system, submitting numerous solutions and attempting various exercises, with activity peaking before exams. The system exceeded expectations in providing useful insights and feedback. However, students faced challenges related to focused attention, probably due to the verbosity of feedback. Learning outcomes, on average, improved, with students who exercised more performing better than the others.


---
# GPT-4 Feedback Increases Student Activation and Learning Outcomes in Higher Education

## GPT-4反馈提高了学生在高等教育中的激活和学习成果

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5505291/latest

Artificial Intelligence, in particular the novel possibilities supplied by GPT-4, is increasingly being utilized in educational settings, yet its impact on student activation and learning outcomes remains controversial. We conduct a lab-in-the-field experiment in undergraduate tutorial classes in macroeconomics at the university level. Over the course of one semester, we asked students to answer eight open-ended questions. Depending on the treatment, students received lecturer feedback at the classroom level only (LF), additional individual feedback from their peers (PF), or from the AI (AIF). We find that AIF has a significant positive effect on student activation.  Compared to LF, continuous participation in the tasks is significantly higher in AIF, and it induces the longest written answers across the eight tasks. In terms of learning outcomes, AIF stands out for producing the most significant improvement in content. For the style of answers, we find no effects. We attribute the larger effects of AIF compared to PF to the higher reliability and quality of feedback provision of the AI. Our findings demonstrate that AI, specifically GPT-4, can offer a scalable and consistent solution for providing individual feedback in educational settings.


---
# Design of A Novel Neural Network-based Adaptive Backstepping Controller On Buck Converter

## 基于神经网络的Buck变换器自适应反推控制器设计

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5485429/latest

A Neural Network-based Adaptive Backstepping Control (NN-ABSC) is designed for a DC\DC Buck converter. A Lyapunov definition-based adaptive mechanism is presented for the Backstepping technique, which enhances robustness and stability of this scheme under various distortions. Also, without requiring a perfect mathematical modeling of the system, its performance is not suitable for practical applications, and a more rapid convergence rate for the &nbsp;Lyapunov function and robustness to the controller&rsquo;s coefficient &nbsp;variations is needed. To achieve that, the parameters must be tuned again for more reliable functions. Therefore, to satisfy this need, a Neural Network adaptive mechanism has been adopted that can optimize the gains of the ABSM in challenging conditions resulting in higher efficiency and lower sensitivity to disturbances. The main issue considered by the NNs is their high computational burden and complexity, which have been addressed here with a single layer NN and a limited number of neurons in the layer. To examine the strengths of this method, conventional BSM and PID control techniques are also designed to be compared with this work. Finally, the results related to both simulations and experimental outputs are examined to show significant robustness and faster dynamics of NN-ABSC in different situations.&nbsp;


---
# A Context-Enhanced Deep Learning Approach to Predict Baseball Pitch Location from Ball Tracking Release Metrics

## 一种上下文增强的深度学习方法，用于根据球跟踪释放指标预测棒球球场位置

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5492127/latest

Ball tracking systems are becoming ubiquitous in sport, creating an unprecedented opportunity for big data applications to optimize human health and performance. These applications are especially common in baseball, a sport known analyzing ball flight data to quantify performance. However, few studies adopt more advanced techniques such as deep learning to conduct these analyses. We aimed to fill this gap by developing a multi-output deep neural network (DNN) to predict final pitch location using ball tracking release metrics and contextual ball flight information (i.e., na&amp;iuml;ve projectile motion estimates) from over two million pitches thrown during National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I games. Predictions from the DNN were compared to predictions made by previously reported machine learning models, and permutation-based feature importance was used to investigate the most important features for predicting pitch location. Euclidean distance errors with the DNN were approximately 15 centimeters, outperforming linear regression models by 33% (6 centimeters). A post-hoc analysis revealed that a DNN trained without the projectile motion features performed 17% (2.8 centimeters) worse than the optimal model, suggesting the added context helped the model learn underlying physics principles that govern ball flight. Moreover, the most important ball tracking metrics for predicting pitch location were lateral release position and spin rate, which have been tied to performance and injury outcomes in elite pitchers. Thus, this model provides an enhanced framework to analyze pitcher performance, and future applications may use additional context to predict other performance metrics from ball tracking data, such as throwing arm biomechanics.


---
# Evaluating Instructor Feedback Practices in a Clinical Learning Environment in a Developing World Setting; a Qualitative Study.

## 在发展中国家的临床学习环境中评估讲师反馈实践; 定性研究。

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5415132/latest

Background Feedback is an essential component in medical education. Delivering timely and relevant feedback to individual students enhances workplace-based learning. There is increasing evidence that current feedback practices are not fit for purpose. However, there&amp;rsquo;s paucity of data on studies evaluating how feedback is given by tutors to students in developing countries. The study sought to evaluate the feedback practices of tutors of clinical medicine students in the facilitation of workplace learning.Methodology It was a qualitative study design. The study was conducted at Kampala International University in Tanzania, KIUT. The study participants were clinical medicine (14) tutors and (22) third year technician certificate in clinical medicine students. Data was collected through In-depth Interviews. The transcribed data was analyzed by inductive thematic analysisResults This study revealed five key themes: Feedback Delivery and Approach, Feedback Timing, Feedback Content, student Engagement and Participation, Challenges in giving feedback. Most tutors provided constructive, timely, and engaging feedback. The challenges dominantly were; Students not being receptive to feedback, Individual differences. Diverse learning styles, student resistance to act on feedback. Notably, most of the students were dissatisfied with the feedback provided citing its absence, delay, inconsistency, discouraging comments, and harsh language used by certain teachers.Conclusion Generally, the clinical tutors provided feedback that was constructive and student engaging but lacked the crucial aspect of observed performance and student reflection; hence an incomplete feedback process. Moreover, a majority of students expressed dissatisfaction with it. To improve impact of feedback on student learning and growth in clinical settings, institutions should implement Faculty Development Programmes that will provide training and support to tutors on effective feedback practices.


---
# A lightweight network-based automatic modulation recognition method for resource constrained edge devices

## 一种基于轻量级网络的资源受限边缘设备自动调制识别方法

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5137928/latest

With the rapid development of intelligent communication technology, modulation recognition of signals has become a crucial research topic in multiple domains such as radar, communications, and electronic warfare. Currently, deep learning-based modulation recognition methods leverage their powerful feature learning capabilities to effectively improve recognition accuracy in low signal-to-noise ratio environments. However, these methods often suffer from complex network structures, high computational requirements, and demanding hardware platforms. Addressing these issues, this paper proposes an automatic modulation recognition method based on lightweight networks applicable under edge conditions. Firstly, the original I/Q data undergo wavelet threshold denoising to mitigate the impact of noise on signal modulation recognition. Subsequently, by incorporating a phase estimator and an enhanced channel attention mechanism into the model, this approach accurately captures signal features affected by noise and interference, while endowing the network with the ability to learn and focus on key information. Importantly, it replaces complex and redundant network structures by utilizing only three one-dimensional convolutional layers for feature extraction, thereby achieving simplification and optimization of the network architecture.After validation on the public dataset RadioML 2016.10a, the number of parameters of this model is only 0.06M, but the average recognition rate reaches 62.32%.


---
# Privacy Preserving Activity Recognition Framework for High Performance Smart Systems

## 面向高性能智能系统的隐私保护行为识别框架

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5059844/latest

Remote recognition of human activities has revolutionized the healthcare industry by enabling smart monitoring of patients at their residents. However, such systems often expose sensitive data, making them vulnerable to breaches. Preserving data confidentiality is a problem that remains underexplored in smart activity recognition, despite its important in preserving patients&amp;rsquo; privacy. This paper aims to develop an optimized feature augmentation technique using fractional derivatives to increase data uncertainty for improved confidentiality, while maintaining acceptable classification accuracy. A key challenge in this domain is the balancing of privacy and performance. To achieve this goal, the proposed framework utilizes multilayer perceptron neural networks that are used to embed multiple modalities of data and integrate them into a coherent structure. Validation was performed using five state-of-the-art classification techniques to measure the performance of the proposed framework in terms of classification accuracy and data confidentiality. The results elevate the potential of the proposed methodology to enable quality healthcare services in terms of confidentiality and performance.


---
# Design of enhanced deep belief network based on APSO

## 基于APSO的增强型深度信念网络设计

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5421806/latest

The deep belief network (DBN) has been widely applied in various fields. However, the traditional DBN has low prediction accuracy and it is difficult to determine the network structure when processing the continuous data. To solve these problems, an enhanced continuous deep belief network (EDBN) based on adaptive particle swarm optimization (APSO) is proposed in this paper. First, based on the gaussian noise transformation and deep learning theory, a EDBN is presented to improve the prediction accuracy of the deep belief network. Second, an APSO with adaptive mutation strategy is employed to optimize the network structure. Finally, the performance of EDBN-APSO is verified by comparing with other algorithms on Lorentz time series, concrete compressive strength test and the total phosphorus prediction. The results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed EDBN.


---
# Scalable Variational Learning for Noisy-OR Bayesian Networks with Normalizing Flows for Complex Cascading Disaster Systems

## 具有复杂级联灾难系统的归一化流的嘈杂或贝叶斯网络的可扩展变分学习

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5462482/latest

Sudden-onset disasters such as earthquakes often induce multiple cascading hazards and impacts, causing human and economic losses. While recent advances in remote sensing technologies provide valuable data for rapid hazard assessment, current methods face two fundamental limitations. First, the inherent causal relationship and co-location of disaster-induced hazards and impacts makes the decoupling of individual hazard or impact particularly challenging. Second, and critically for disaster response, existing methods cannot adapt to new information during the critical response period - they provide only static initial estimates despite the continuous influx of ground truth data from field reconnaissance. This inability to update and refine assessments in real-time severely limits their practical utility for emergency response, where understanding of the disaster's impact typically evolves significantly over time. Herein, we present online-DisasterVINF, a framework that uniquely addresses both limitations. We leverage Noisy-OR Bayesian networks, which are particularly suited for modeling how multiple hazards independently contribute to the observed impacts, combined with normalizing flows to provide a more expressive alternative to simple log-linear relationships. The framework is also capable of improving its estimation by incorporating ground truth data as it becomes available through post-disaster reconnaissance. We develop a novel variational inference approach that jointly approximates posteriors by leveraging complex causal relationships and remote sensing techniques. We evaluate our framework on multiple seismic events from diverse countries around the globe. Our results demonstrate that online-DisasterVINF significantly enhances estimation accuracy compared to existing methods, while our analysis shows the online updating mechanism substantially improves model performance as ground truth becomes available, underlining its adaptability for real-time disaster response.


---
# QC-Net: A Hybird Quantum-Classical Neural Network Model for Medical Image Segmentation

## Qc-net: 一种用于医学图像分割的Hybird量子经典神经网络模型

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5480786/latest

The U-Net architecture is widely recognized as one of the most prominent models for medicalimage segmentation, comprising an encoder and a decoder. The encoder is crucial for extractingimage features to enhance segmentation accuracy, typically incorporating convolutional and poolinglayers. However, standard encoder structures often miss some classical features and struggleto extract high-level features effectively. In this paper, a hybird Quantum-Classical Neural Network(QC-Net) model with a novel encoder is proposed, aiming to capture more representativefeatures. Our encoder features a Residual Convolutional Block (RCB) to primarily extract somemissed features, and then Efficient Channel Attention (ECA) is employed into the output featuremaps after the RCB and pooling operations to handle more complex and noisy information. Consequently,a two-qubit parameterized circuit is devised to capture the final output features of theencoder, aiming to further capture the hidden high-level features from the quantum dimension.The decoder incorporates a joint attention mechanism and deconvolution operations to recoverthe spatial resolution and detail information of the original input image. To validate its efficacy,we conduct skin lesion segmentation experiments utilizing the ISIC2018 dataset. Notably, ourQC-Net model outperforms both U-Net and CA-Net, achieving an average Dice coefficient of93.2%, indicating improvements of 5.43% and 1.12%, respectively. These results underscore theoutstanding performance of our proposed QC-Net model.


---
# Learning Experiences of Medical Imaging Undergraduates Participating in the &ldquo;Creative H&amp;amp;E&rdquo; Project Incorporating Design Thinking: A Qualitative Study

## 医学影像专业本科生参与设计思维 “创意H & E” 项目的学习经历: 一项定性研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5370094/latest

Background
Cultivation of comprehensive quality medical imaging talent should start during the teaching of basic medical courses. The interdisciplinary team of Jining Medical College integrated design-thinking into the project-based teaching of basic medical courses and implemented the &ldquo;Creative H&amp;amp;E&rdquo; learning skills development competition project, which lasted for 14 weeks, including the preliminary contest (writing a textbook play script), semi-final contest (shooting creative videos), and final contest (on-site stage display).
Methods
A qualitative research design was employed to explore how the unique project-based learning method of &ldquo;Creative H&amp;amp;E&rdquo; specifically affects the learning experience of medical imaging undergraduates. Ten award-winning students majoring in medical imaging were selected for in-depth one-on-one interviews. The interview outline covered six topics: motivation and preparation for the competition, creative background and process of the winning works, design and realization of the winning works, teamwork and communication during preparation and participation, experience and outcome of the competition, and feedback and suggestions of the competition. The interview results were systematically analyzed using NVivo 14 software.
Results
The medical imaging undergraduates were interested in &ldquo;Creative H&amp;amp;E&rdquo; projects and believed that this experience deepened their knowledge and understanding, cultivated their teamwork abilities, and stimulated innovative thinking.
Conclusions
Through creative conception and design realization, medical knowledge and design thinking are skillfully combined, and innovative thinking and practical abilities are significantly improved.
This experience provided a solid foundation for the undergraduates&rsquo; future academic and professional development, and stimulated their desire for more practical opportunities. Project-based learning with design thinking has a remarkable effect on medical imaging in undergraduate education, which can enhance students&rsquo; learning motivation and satisfaction and their practical skills and innovative thinking. This study provides a useful reference for medical imaging reforms and innovations in undergraduate education.


---
# Experiential Learning for Nutrition Literacy of School-Aged Children: A Study Protocol of Cluster Randomized Controlled Trial

## 体验式学习促进学龄儿童营养素养的整群随机对照研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5365909/latest

Background The global increase in childhood and adolescent obesity presents a critical public health challenge. Nutrient literacy, which refers to the ability to acquire, understand, and apply nutritional information, has the potential to address this issue.Methods This cluster-randomized controlled trial targets third and fourth-grade students in Nanshan District, Shenzhen City. The study will span three months and involves eight primary schools, which are randomly assigned to the intervention or control groups in a 1:1 ratio. The experiential learning-based intervention mainly includes experiential classroom activities, practical nutritional activities, family healthy eating recording and daily nutrition health education. Control groups receive standard nutritional education provided by the schools. Data collection occurs at baseline and post-intervention, focusing on nutrient literacy and children's dietary habits using the &amp;ldquo;Food and Nutrition Literacy Questionnaire for Chinese School-age Children&amp;rdquo; (FNLQ-SC) and Food Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ).Discussion This protocol integrates interactive classroom activities, practical skill development, and family involvement. It aims to improve children&amp;rsquo;s nutrient literacy and dietary habits, potentially mitigating childhood obesity and related chronic diseases.Trial registration The trial was registered in Chinese Clinical Trial Registry on 30 October 2024 (No.: ChiCTR2400091566).

