# BiEntropiGram: A Novel Time-Frequency Entropy Map for Rotating Machines Incipient Fault Diagnosis

## BiEntropiGram: 一种用于旋转机械早期故障诊断的新型时频熵图

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5653147/latest

Diagnosing incipient faults in rotating machinery is crucial for reducing maintenance costs and preventingthe occurrence of other faults. Accurately extracting fault-related features from vibrationaltime series is fundamental to early fault detection. Entropy has emerged as a robust metric for quantifyingcomplexity in time series; however, entropy-based feature extraction methods often requireparameter tuning and tend to overlook frequency-domain features. This paper introduces BiEntropi-Gram, a novel time-frequency entropy mapping technique synthesizing information from both thetime and frequency domains into a 2D image representation. In this framework, time-domain featuresare extracted using Time Shift Multi-Scale Attention Entropy (TSMAtE), while frequency-domainfeatures are derived through Time Shift Multi-Scale Spectral Entropy (TSMSpE). Noise analysisis employed to determine the optimal number of time scales and the ideal time series length tooptimize performance. Analytical studies with various noise types further demonstrate the superiorperformance of BiEntropiGram compared to features extracted solely via TSMAtE or TSMSpE. Theproposed fault diagnosis system utilizes an optimized convolutional neural network (CNN) coupledwith the Bees Algorithm (BA)&mdash;termed BACNN&mdash;to refine feature selection and classify faults usingan optimized support vector machine (SVM). The efficacy of BiEntropiGram is validated across fivepublicly available datasets, achieving 100% diagnostic accuracy on three datasets with faults of varyingseverity. Furthermore, BiEntropiGram outperforms traditional methods, including the Morlet andMexican Hat Continuous Wavelet Transforms (CWTs) and Short-Time Fourier Transform (STFT).These results confirm the effectiveness of the proposed BiEntropiGram-based fault diagnosis approachfor the diagnosis of incipient faults in rotating machinery.


---
# Deep learning for parameter identification of nonlinear dynamical system driven by fractional Brownian motion

## 分数布朗运动驱动的非线性动力系统参数辨识的深度学习

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5663187/latest

This paper presents a deep learning-based parameter identifier capable of jointly identifying all parameters of a nonlinear dynamical system driven with fractional Brownian motion (FBM). Firstly, a new parameter identifier (TBNN) is constructed by combining the advantages of transformer in dealing with long-term dependence and bidirectional long short-term memory (BiLSTM) in extracting local features. Next, FBM is introduced as the random effect in the nonlinear dynamical system, and three examples are provided to simulate the established system. Finally, the TBNN identifier is used to identify the parameters of the three systems individually and compares with the PENN identifier to verify its effectiveness. The results demonstrate that the proposed TBNN identifier can identify all parameters of the nonlinear dynamical system more quickly and accurately. Additionally, three advantages of the TBNN identifier are discussed, including the stability of parameter identification results, the rationality of sample size selection, and the advantages of TBNN network construction.


---
# Generative Deep Neural Networks for Estimating Hypervariability in Hepatitis B and C Virus Genomes

## 生成式深度神经网络用于估计乙型和丙型肝炎病毒基因组的高变区

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5560102/latest

Hepatitis B virus (HBV) and Hepatitis C virus (HCV) have always remained a greater global concern. Approximately 1.3 million deaths occur each year due to HBV and HCV. Due to the diverse genotypes and drug resistance, diagnostic challenges are being faced to treat these viruses. Therefore, the success ratio of the antiviral therapies has been decreasing with time in the last few decades. By deep learning predictive model, the pattern of evolution in hypervariable regions of HBV and HCV genes can be foreseen. In HCV, the hypervariable region is the Envelope glycoprotein (E2) gene, while in HBV, it includes the S1 and S2 genes. Generative models in deep learning have been used for evolutionary studies, but the application of these models is limited in viral research for predicting the evolving genotypes of viruses. The Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) model represented a satisfactory outcome in predicting the sequences of the hypervariable genes of the evolving genotypes of the HCV and HBV genes that might be of a great help in diagnosis and vaccine design. We collected data from databases like NCBI and BVBRC. Our proposed LSTM generative model was trained on 1500 sequences of hypervariable genes of the present 7 genotypes of Hepatitis C and 10 genotypes of HBV. Apart from the traditional generative models like Recurrent Neural Network (RNN), our model not only generates the sequence but also learns and develops the relationship between various parts of the virus&rsquo;s genetic code. In this study, three generative models were compared, Simple RNN, 1-Dimensional Convolutional Neural Network (ConV1d) and Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM). Among these three, LSTM demonstrated the least error rate with the highest efficiency and accuracy. While simple RNN and ConV1d illustrated relatively higher error rate and lower accuracy. LSTM gained success in reading long dependencies, hence, the proposed LSTM models are efficient at handling the sequential data along with preventing the conventional issue of losing the important information from the data, which happens frequently in generative models like Simple RNN and ConV1d.

