# Machine Learning and Theoretical Prediction of Highly Spin‐Polarized Cr2COx MXene with Enhanced Curie Temperature

## 居里温度提高的高自旋极化Cr2COx MXene的机器学习和理论预测

Link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202411170?af=R

**Authors:** Jianhui Yang, 
Fei shi, 
Cheng Zhou, 
Shaozheng Zhang, 
Qiao Sui, 
Liang Chen

Advanced Functional Materials, Volume 34, Issue 52, December 23, 2024.


---
# Decoupled Temperature–Pressure Sensing System for Deep Learning Assisted Human–Machine Interaction

## 深度学习辅助人机交互的解耦温度-压力传感系统

Link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202411688?af=R

**Authors:** Zhaoyang Chen, 
Shun Liu, 
Pengyuan Kang, 
Yalong Wang, 
Hu Liu, 
Chuntai Liu, 
Changyu Shen

Advanced Functional Materials, Volume 34, Issue 52, December 23, 2024.


---
# Exploring Noncollinear Magnetic Energy Landscapes with Bayesian Optimization

## 用贝叶斯优化探索非共线磁能景观

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16433

**Authors:** Jakob Baumsteiger, Lorenzo Celiberti, Patrick Rinke, Milica Todorovi\'c, Cesare Franchini

arXiv:2412.16433v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The investigation of magnetic energy landscapes and the search for ground states of magnetic materials using ab initio methods like density functional theory (DFT) is a challenging task. Complex interactions, such as superexchange and spin-orbit coupling, make these calculations computationally expensive and often lead to non-trivial energy landscapes. Consequently, a comprehensive and systematic investigation of large magnetic configuration spaces is often impractical. We approach this problem by utilizing Bayesian Optimization, an active machine learning scheme that has proven to be efficient in modeling unknown functions and finding global minima. Using this approach we can obtain the magnetic contribution to the energy as a function of one or more spin canting angles with relatively small numbers of DFT calculations. To assess the capabilities and the efficiency of the approach we investigate the noncollinear magnetic energy landscapes of selected materials containing 3d, 5d and 5f magnetic ions: Ba$_3$MnNb$_2$O$_9$, LaMn$_2$Si$_2$, $\beta$-MnO$_2$, Sr$_2$IrO$_4$, UO$_2$ and Ba$_2$NaOsO$_6$. By comparing our results to previous ab initio studies that followed more conventional approaches, we observe significant improvements in efficiency.


---
# Universal Machine Learning Interatomic Potentials are Ready for Phonons

## 通用机器学习原子间势已为声子做好准备

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16551

**Authors:** Antoine Loew, Dewen Sun, Hai-Chen Wang, Silvana Botti, Miguel A. L. Marques

arXiv:2412.16551v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: There has been an ongoing race for the past couple of years to develop the best universal machine learning interatomic potential. This rapid growth has driven researchers to create increasingly accurate models for predicting energy, forces, and stresses, combining innovative architectures with big data. Here, these models are benchmarked for their performance in predicting phonon properties, which are critical for understanding the vibrational and thermal behavior of materials. Our analysis is based on around 10 000 ab initio phonon calculations, enabling us to assess performance across a range of phonon-related parameters while testing the universal applicability of these models. The results reveal that some models are already capable of predicting phonon properties with a high level of accuracy. However, others still exhibit substantial inaccuracies, even if they excel in the prediction of the energy and the forces for materials close to dynamical equilibrium. These findings highlight the importance of considering phonon-related properties in the development of universal machine learning interatomic potentials.


---
# Variational Evolutionary Network for Statistical Physics Systems

## 统计物理系统的变分进化网络

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16598

**Authors:** Yixiong Ren, Jianhui Zhou

arXiv:2412.16598v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Monte Carlo methods are widely used importance sampling techniques for studying complex physical systems. Integrating these methods with deep learning has significantly improved efficiency and accuracy in high-dimensional problems and complex system simulations. However, these neural network-enhanced Monte Carlo methods still face challenges such as slow sampling speeds, statistical bias, and inaccuracies in the ground state. To address these issues, we propose a variational evolutionary network, which utilizes neural networks for variational free energy and combines evolutionary algorithms for sampling. During the sampling process, we construct generation and selection operators to filter samples based on importance, thereby achieving efficient importance sampling. We demonstrate that this sampling method provides an upper bound on the ground-state energy, enhancing both sampling efficiency and ground-state accuracy. Moreover, we numerically examine our method in two-dimensional Ising model and Sherrington-Kirkpatrick Model for spin glass. Thus, our algorithm could offer improved accuracy in handling complex energy landscapes and significantly enhance computational efficiency.


---
# Point defect formation at finite temperatures with machine learning force fields

## 具有机器学习力场的有限温度下的点缺陷形成

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16741

**Authors:** Irea Mosquera-Lois, Johan Klarbring, Aron Walsh

arXiv:2412.16741v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Point defects dictate the properties of many functional materials. The standard approach to modelling the thermodynamics of defects relies on a static description, where the change in Gibbs free energy is approximated by the internal energy. This approach has a low computational cost, but ignores contributions from atomic vibrations and structural configurations that can be accessed at finite temperatures. We train a machine learning force field (MLFF) to explore dynamic defect behaviour using $\mathrm{Te_i^{+1}}$ and $\textit{V}{\mathrm{_{Te}^{+2}}}$ in CdTe as exemplars. We consider the different entropic contributions (e.g., electronic, spin, vibrational, orientational, and configurational) and compare methods to compute the defect free energies, ranging from a harmonic treatment to a fully anharmonic approach based on thermodynamic integration. We find that metastable configurations are populated at room temperature and thermal effects increase the predicted concentration of $\mathrm{Te_i^{+1}}$ by two orders of magnitude -- and can thus significantly affect the predicted properties. Overall, our study underscores the importance of finite-temperature effects and the potential of MLFFs to model defect dynamics at both synthesis and device operating temperatures.


---
# Development of a Neuromorphic Network Using BioSFQ Circuits

## 使用BioSFQ电路开发神经形态网络

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16804

**Authors:** Evan B. Golden (Lincoln Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Lexington, MA, USA), Vasili K. Semenov (Dept. of Physics and Astronomy, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, NY, USA), Sergey K. Tolpygo (Lincoln Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Lexington, MA, USA)

arXiv:2412.16804v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Superconductor electronics (SCE) appear promising for low energy applications. However, the achieved and projected circuit densities are insufficient for direct competition with CMOS technology. Original algorithms and nontraditional architectures are required for realizing SCE energy advantages for computing. Neuromorphic computing (NMC) is a commonly discussed deviation from conventional CMOS digital solutions. Instead of mimicking a conventional network of artificial neurons, we compose a network from the previously demonstrated single flux quantum (SFQ) electronics components which we termed bioSFQ. We present a design and operation of a new neuromorphic circuit containing a 3x3 array of bioSFQ cells - superconductor artificial neurons - capable of performing various analog functions and based on Josephson junction comparators with complementary outputs. The resultant asynchronous network closely resembles a three-layer perceptron. We also present superconductor analog memory and the memory Read/Write interface implemented with the neural network. The circuits were fabricated in the SFQ5ee process at MIT Lincoln Laboratory.


---
# Thermodynamic computing out of equilibrium

## 热力学计算失衡

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.17183

**Authors:** Stephen Whitelam, Corneel Casert

arXiv:2412.17183v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We present the design for a thermodynamic computer that can perform arbitrary nonlinear calculations in or out of equilibrium. Simple thermodynamic circuits, fluctuating degrees of freedom in contact with a thermal bath and confined by a quartic potential, display an activity that is a nonlinear function of their input. Such circuits can therefore be regarded as thermodynamic neurons, and can serve as the building blocks of networked structures that act as thermodynamic neural networks, universal function approximators whose operation is powered by thermal fluctuations. We simulate a digital model of a thermodynamic neural network, and show that its parameters can be adjusted by genetic algorithm to perform nonlinear calculations at specified observation times, regardless of whether the system has attained thermal equilibrium. This work expands the field of thermodynamic computing beyond the regime of thermal equilibrium, enabling fully nonlinear computations, analogous to those performed by classical neural networks, at specified observation times.


---
# Emerging Microelectronic Materials by Design: Navigating Combinatorial Design Space with Scarce and Dispersed Data

## 新兴微电子材料的设计: 利用稀缺和分散的数据导航组合设计空间

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.17283

**Authors:** Hengrui Zhang, Alexandru B. Georgescu, Suraj Yerramilli, Christopher Karpovich, Daniel W. Apley, Elsa A. Olivetti, James M. Rondinelli, Wei Chen

arXiv:2412.17283v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The increasing demands of sustainable energy, electronics, and biomedical applications call for next-generation functional materials with unprecedented properties. Of particular interest are emerging materials that display exceptional physical properties, making them promising candidates in energy-efficient microelectronic devices. As the conventional Edisonian approach becomes significantly outpaced by growing societal needs, emerging computational modeling and machine learning (ML) methods are employed for the rational design of materials. However, the complex physical mechanisms, cost of first-principles calculations, and the dispersity and scarcity of data pose challenges to both physics-based and data-driven materials modeling. Moreover, the combinatorial composition-structure design space is high-dimensional and often disjoint, making design optimization nontrivial. In this Account, we review a team effort toward establishing a framework that integrates data-driven and physics-based methods to address these challenges and accelerate materials design. We begin by presenting our integrated materials design framework and its three components in a general context. We then provide an example of applying this materials design framework to metal-insulator transition (MIT) materials, a specific type of emerging materials with practical importance in next-generation memory technologies. We identify multiple new materials which may display this property and propose pathways for their synthesis. Finally, we identify some outstanding challenges in data-driven materials design, such as materials data quality issues and property-performance mismatch. We seek to raise awareness of these overlooked issues hindering materials design, thus stimulating efforts toward developing methods to mitigate the gaps.


---
# Decoding fairness: a reinforcement learning perspective

## 解码公平: 强化学习视角

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16249

**Authors:** Guozhong Zheng, Jiqiang Zhang, Xin Ou, Shengfeng Deng, Li Chen

arXiv:2412.16249v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Behavioral experiments on the ultimatum game (UG) reveal that we humans prefer fair acts, which contradicts the prediction made in orthodox Economics. Existing explanations, however, are mostly attributed to exogenous factors within the imitation learning framework. Here, we adopt the reinforcement learning paradigm, where individuals make their moves aiming to maximize their accumulated rewards. Specifically, we apply Q-learning to UG, where each player is assigned two Q-tables to guide decisions for the roles of proposer and responder. In a two-player scenario, fairness emerges prominently when both experiences and future rewards are appreciated. In particular, the probability of successful deals increases with higher offers, which aligns with observations in behavioral experiments. Our mechanism analysis reveals that the system undergoes two phases, eventually stabilizing into fair or rational strategies. These results are robust when the rotating role assignment is replaced by a random or fixed manner, or the scenario is extended to a latticed population. Our findings thus conclude that the endogenous factor is sufficient to explain the emergence of fairness, exogenous factors are not needed.


---
# Knowledge as a Breaking of Ergodicity

## 知识是对麦斯性的突破

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16411

**Authors:** Yang He, Vassiliy Lubchenko

arXiv:2412.16411v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We construct a thermodynamic potential that can guide training of a generative model defined on a set of binary degrees of freedom. We argue that upon reduction in description, so as to make the generative model computationally-manageable, the potential develops multiple minima. This is mirrored by the emergence of multiple minima in the free energy proper of the generative model itself. The variety of training samples that employ N binary degrees of freedom is ordinarily much lower than the size 2^N of the full phase space. The non-represented configurations, we argue, should be thought of as comprising a high-temperature phase separated by an extensive energy gap from the configurations composing the training set. Thus, training amounts to sampling a free energy surface in the form of a library of distinct bound states, each of which breaks ergodicity. The ergodicity breaking prevents escape into the near continuum of states comprising the high-temperature phase; thus it is necessary for proper functionality. It may however have the side effect of limiting access to patterns that were underrepresented in the training set. At the same time, the ergodicity breaking within the library complicates both learning and retrieval. As a remedy, one may concurrently employ multiple generative models -- up to one model per free energy minimum.


---
# An automated framework for exploring and learning potential-energy surfaces

## 探索和学习势能面的自动化框架

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16736

**Authors:** Yuanbin Liu, Joe D. Morrow, Christina Ertural, Natascia L. Fragapane, John L. A. Gardner, Aakash A. Naik, Yuxing Zhou, Janine George, Volker L. Deringer

arXiv:2412.16736v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Machine learning has become ubiquitous in materials modelling and now routinely enables large-scale atomistic simulations with quantum-mechanical accuracy. However, developing machine-learned interatomic potentials requires high-quality training data, and the manual generation and curation of such data can be a major bottleneck. Here, we introduce an automated framework for the exploration and fitting of potential-energy surfaces, implemented in an openly available software package that we call autoplex (`automatic potential-landscape explorer'). We discuss design choices, particularly the interoperability with existing software architectures, and the ability for the end user to easily use the computational workflows provided. We show wide-ranging capability demonstrations: for the titanium-oxygen system, SiO2, crystalline and liquid water, as well as phase-change memory materials. More generally, our study illustrates how automation can speed up atomistic machine learning -- with a long-term vision of making it a genuine mainstream tool in physics, chemistry, and materials science.


---
# Zero-temperature Monte Carlo simulations of two-dimensional quantum spin glasses guided by neural network states

## 神经网络态引导的二维量子自旋玻璃的零温蒙特卡罗模拟

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.05978

**Authors:** L. Brodoloni, S. Pilati

arXiv:2407.05978v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: A continuous-time projection quantum Monte Carlo algorithm is employed to simulate the ground state of a short-range quantum spin-glass model, namely, the two-dimensional Edwards-Anderson Hamiltonian with transverse field, featuring Gaussian nearest-neighbor couplings. We numerically demonstrate that guiding wave functions based on self-learned neural networks suppress the population control bias below modest statistical uncertainties, at least up to a hundred spins. By projecting a two-fold replicated Hamiltonian, the spin overlap is determined. A finite-size scaling analysis is performed to estimate the critical transverse field where the spin-glass transition occurs, as well as the critical exponents of the correlation length and the spin-glass susceptibility. For the latter two, good agreement is found with recent estimates from the literature for different random couplings. We also address the spin-overlap distribution within the spin-glass phase, finding that, for the workable system sizes, it displays a non-trivial double-peak shape with large weight at zero overlap.


---
# Stress Predictions in Polycrystal Plasticity using Graph Neural Networks with Subgraph Training

## 使用具有子图训练的图神经网络进行多晶塑性应力预测

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.05169

**Authors:** Hanfeng Zhai

arXiv:2409.05169v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Numerical modeling of polycrystal plasticity is computationally intensive. We employ Graph Neural Networks (GNN) to predict stresses on complex geometries for polycrystal plasticity from Finite Element Method (FEM) simulations. We present a novel message-passing GNN that encodes nodal strain and edge distances between FEM mesh cells, and aggregates to obtain embeddings and combines the decoded embeddings with the nodal strains to predict stress tensors on graph nodes. The GNN is trained on subgraphs generated from FEM mesh graphs, in which the mesh cells are converted to nodes and edges are created between adjacent cells. We apply the trained GNN to periodic polycrystals with complex geometries and learn the strain-stress maps based on crystal plasticity theory. The GNN is accurately trained on FEM graphs, in which the $R^2$ for both training and testing sets are larger than 0.99. The proposed GNN approach speeds up more than 150 times compared with FEM on stress predictions. We also apply the trained GNN to unseen simulations for validations and the GNN generalizes well with an overall $R^2$ of 0.992. The GNN accurately predicts the von Mises stress on polycrystals. The proposed model does not overfit and generalizes well beyond the training data, as the error distributions demonstrate. This work outlooks surrogating crystal plasticity simulations using graph data.


---
# Simplified derivations for high-dimensional convex learning problems

## 高维凸学习问题的简化推导

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.01110

**Authors:** David G. Clark, Haim Sompolinsky

arXiv:2412.01110v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Statistical physics provides tools for analyzing high-dimensional problems in machine learning and theoretical neuroscience. These calculations, particularly those using the replica method, often involve lengthy derivations that can obscure physical interpretation. We give concise, non-replica derivations of several key results and highlight their underlying similarities. Specifically, we introduce a cavity approach to analyzing high-dimensional learning problems and apply it to three cases: perceptron classification of points, perceptron classification of manifolds, and kernel ridge regression. These problems share a common structure -- a bipartite system of interacting feature and datum variables -- enabling a unified analysis. For perceptron-capacity problems, we identify a symmetry that allows derivation of correct capacities through a na\"ive method. These results match those obtained through the replica method.


---
# CHIPS-FF: Evaluating Universal Machine Learning Force Fields for Material Properties

## CHIPS-FF: 评估材料特性的通用机器学习力场

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10516

**Authors:** Daniel Wines, Kamal Choudhary

arXiv:2412.10516v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: In this work, we introduce CHIPS-FF (Computational High-Performance Infrastructure for Predictive Simulation-based Force Fields), a universal, open-source benchmarking platform for machine learning force fields (MLFFs). This platform provides robust evaluation beyond conventional metrics such as energy, focusing on complex properties including elastic constants, phonon spectra, defect formation energies, surface energies, and interfacial and amorphous phase properties. Utilizing 13 graph-based MLFF models including ALIGNN-FF, CHGNet, MatGL, MACE, SevenNet, ORB and OMat24, the CHIPS-FF workflow integrates the Atomic Simulation Environment (ASE) with JARVIS-Tools to facilitate automated high-throughput simulations. Our framework is tested on a set of 104 materials, including metals, semiconductors and insulators representative of those used in semiconductor components, with each MLFF evaluated for convergence, accuracy, and computational cost. Additionally, we evaluate the force-prediction accuracy of these models for close to 2 million atomic structures. By offering a streamlined, flexible benchmarking infrastructure, CHIPS-FF aims to guide the development and deployment of MLFFs for real-world semiconductor applications, bridging the gap between quantum mechanical simulations and large-scale device modeling.


---
# Bias in Motion: Theoretical Insights into the Dynamics of Bias in SGD Training

## 运动中的偏差: 对SGD培训中偏差动态的理论洞察

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.18296

**Authors:** Anchit Jain, Rozhin Nobahari, Aristide Baratin, Stefano Sarao Mannelli

arXiv:2405.18296v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Machine learning systems often acquire biases by leveraging undesired features in the data, impacting accuracy variably across different sub-populations. Current understanding of bias formation mostly focuses on the initial and final stages of learning, leaving a gap in knowledge regarding the transient dynamics. To address this gap, this paper explores the evolution of bias in a teacher-student setup modeling different data sub-populations with a Gaussian-mixture model. We provide an analytical description of the stochastic gradient descent dynamics of a linear classifier in this setting, which we prove to be exact in high dimension. Notably, our analysis reveals how different properties of sub-populations influence bias at different timescales, showing a shifting preference of the classifier during training. Applying our findings to fairness and robustness, we delineate how and when heterogeneous data and spurious features can generate and amplify bias. We empirically validate our results in more complex scenarios by training deeper networks on synthetic and real datasets, including CIFAR10, MNIST, and CelebA.


---
# Generalizability of Graph Neural Network Force Fields for Predicting Solid-State Properties

## 用于预测固态特性的图神经网络力场的泛化性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.09931

**Authors:** Shaswat Mohanty, Yifan Wang, Wei Cai

arXiv:2409.09931v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Machine-learned force fields (MLFFs) promise to offer a computationally efficient alternative to ab initio simulations for complex molecular systems. However, ensuring their generalizability beyond training data is crucial for their wide application in studying solid materials. This work investigates the ability of a graph neural network (GNN)-based MLFF, trained on Lennard-Jones Argon, to describe solid-state phenomena not explicitly included during training. We assess the MLFF's performance in predicting phonon density of states (PDOS) for a perfect face-centered cubic (FCC) crystal structure at both zero and finite temperatures. Additionally, we evaluate vacancy migration rates and energy barriers in an imperfect crystal using direct molecular dynamics (MD) simulations and the string method. Notably, vacancy configurations were absent from the training data. Our results demonstrate the MLFF's capability to capture essential solid-state properties with good agreement to reference data, even for unseen configurations. We further discuss data engineering strategies to enhance the generalizability of MLFFs. The proposed set of benchmark tests and workflow for evaluating MLFF performance in describing perfect and imperfect crystals pave the way for reliable application of MLFFs in studying complex solid-state materials.


---
# eminus -- Pythonic electronic structure theory

## eminus -- Pythonic电子结构理论

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.19438

**Authors:** Wanja Timm Schulze, Sebastian Schwalbe, Kai Trepte, Stefanie Gr\"afe

arXiv:2410.19438v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: In current electronic structure research endeavors such as warm dense matter or machine learning applications, efficient development necessitates non-monolithic software, providing an extendable and flexible interface. The open-source idea offers the advantage of having a source code base that can be reviewed and modified by the community. However, practical implementations can often diverge significantly from their theoretical counterpart. Leveraging the efforts of recent theoretical formulations and the features of Python, we try to mitigate these problems. We present eminus, an education- and development-friendly electronic structure package designed for convenient and customizable workflows, yet built with intelligible and modular implementations.


---
# Rapid Climate Model Downscaling to Assess Risk of Extreme Rainfall in Bangladesh in a Warming Climate

## 快速气候模型降尺度以评估气候变暖下孟加拉国极端降雨的风险

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16407

**Authors:** Anamitra Saha, Sai Ravela

arXiv:2412.16407v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: As climate change drives an increase in global extremes, it is critical for Bangladesh, a nation highly vulnerable to these impacts, to assess future risks for effective adaptation and mitigation planning. Downscaling coarse-resolution climate models to finer scales is essential for accurately evaluating the risk of extremes. In this study, we apply our downscaling method, which integrates data, physics, and machine learning, to quantify the risks of extreme precipitation in Bangladesh. The proposed approach successfully captures the observed spatial patterns and risks of extreme rainfall in the current climate while generating risk and uncertainty estimates by efficiently downscaling multiple models under future climate scenarios. Our findings project that the risk of extreme rainfall rises across the country, with the most significant increases in the northeastern hilly and southeastern coastal areas. Projections show that the daily maximum rainfall for a 100-year return period could increase by approximately 50 mm/day by mid-century and around 100 mm/day by the end of the century. However, substantial uncertainties remain due to variations across multiple climate models and scenarios.


---
# An explainable operator approximation framework under the guideline of Green's function

## 格林函数准则下的可解释算子逼近框架

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16644

**Authors:** Jianghang Gu, Ling Wen, Yuntian Chen, Shiyi Chen

arXiv:2412.16644v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Traditional numerical methods, such as the finite element method and finite volume method, adress partial differential equations (PDEs) by discretizing them into algebraic equations and solving these iteratively. However, this process is often computationally expensive and time-consuming. An alternative approach involves transforming PDEs into integral equations and solving them using Green's functions, which provide analytical solutions. Nevertheless, deriving Green's functions analytically is a challenging and non-trivial task, particularly for complex systems. In this study, we introduce a novel framework, termed GreensONet, which is constructed based on the strucutre of deep operator networks (DeepONet) to learn embedded Green's functions and solve PDEs via Green's integral formulation. Specifically, the Trunk Net within GreensONet is designed to approximate the unknown Green's functions of the system, while the Branch Net are utilized to approximate the auxiliary gradients of the Green's function. These outputs are subsequently employed to perform surface integrals and volume integrals, incorporating user-defined boundary conditions and source terms, respectively. The effectiveness of the proposed framework is demonstrated on three types of PDEs in bounded domains: 3D heat conduction equations, reaction-diffusion equations, and Stokes equations. Comparative results in these cases demonstrate that GreenONet's accuracy and generalization ability surpass those of existing methods, including Physics-Informed Neural Networks (PINN), DeepONet, Physics-Informed DeepONet (PI-DeepONet), and Fourier Neural Operators (FNO).


---
# Optoelectronic generative adversarial networks

## 光电生成对抗网络

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16672

**Authors:** Jumin Qiu, Ganqing Lu, Tingting Liu, Dejian Zhang, Shuyuan Xiao, Tianbao Yu

arXiv:2412.16672v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Artificial intelligence generative content technology has experienced remarkable breakthroughs in recent years and is quietly leading a profound transformation. Diffractive optical networks provide a promising solution for implementing generative model with high-speed and low-power consumption. In this work, we present the implementation of a generative model on the optoelectronic computing architecture, based on generative adversarial network, which is called optoelectronic generative adversarial network. The network strategically distributes the generator and discriminator across the optical and electronic components, which are seamlessly integrated to leverage the unique strengths of each computing paradigm and take advantage of transfer learning. The network can efficiently and high-speed process the complex tasks involved in the training and inference of the generative model. The superior performance of these networks is verified by engaging three types of generative tasks, image generation, conditional generation, and image restoration. By synergistically combining the strengths of optical and electronic computing, the optoelectronic generative adversarial network paves the way for the development of more powerful and accessible artificial intelligence generative content technology that can unlock new creative possibilities across a wide range of applications.


---
# Development of grid-based and PINN solvers for electron kinetics in collisional non-thermal plasmas

## 碰撞非热等离子体中电子动力学的基于网格和PINN求解器的开发

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16706

**Authors:** Vladimir Kolobov, Lucius Schoenbaum

arXiv:2412.16706v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We compare traditional finite volume and Physics Informed Neural Network (PINN) solvers for elliptic (Poisson), hyperbolic (advection), and parabolic (diffusion) equations in 2d settings. We describe the challenges of using traditional and PINN solvers for electron kinetic equations in collisional plasmas. The advantages and drawbacks of PINNs over state-of-the-art traditional solvers are discussed. We also consider angular moments in spherical velocity space and the potential use of ML algorithms for reduced kinetic models in the coordinate-energy phase space based on adaptive closure relations.


---
# An automated framework for exploring and learning potential-energy surfaces

## 探索和学习势能面的自动化框架

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16736

**Authors:** Yuanbin Liu, Joe D. Morrow, Christina Ertural, Natascia L. Fragapane, John L. A. Gardner, Aakash A. Naik, Yuxing Zhou, Janine George, Volker L. Deringer

arXiv:2412.16736v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Machine learning has become ubiquitous in materials modelling and now routinely enables large-scale atomistic simulations with quantum-mechanical accuracy. However, developing machine-learned interatomic potentials requires high-quality training data, and the manual generation and curation of such data can be a major bottleneck. Here, we introduce an automated framework for the exploration and fitting of potential-energy surfaces, implemented in an openly available software package that we call autoplex (`automatic potential-landscape explorer'). We discuss design choices, particularly the interoperability with existing software architectures, and the ability for the end user to easily use the computational workflows provided. We show wide-ranging capability demonstrations: for the titanium-oxygen system, SiO2, crystalline and liquid water, as well as phase-change memory materials. More generally, our study illustrates how automation can speed up atomistic machine learning -- with a long-term vision of making it a genuine mainstream tool in physics, chemistry, and materials science.


---
# A Graph Neural Network Surrogate Model for Multi-Objective Fluid-Acoustic Shape Optimization

## 多目标流体声学形状优化的图神经网络代理模型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16817

**Authors:** Farnoosh Hadizadeh, Wrik Mallik, Rajeev K. Jaiman

arXiv:2412.16817v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: This article presents a graph neural network (GNN) based surrogate modeling approach for fluid-acoustic shape optimization. The GNN model transforms mesh-based simulations into a computational graph, enabling global prediction of pressure and velocity flow fields around solid boundaries. We employ signed distance functions to implicitly represent geometries on unstructured nodes represented by the graph neural network. The trained graph neural network is employed here to predict the flow field around various airfoil shapes. The median relative error in the prediction of pressure and velocity for 300 test cases is 1-2\%. The predicted flow field is employed to extract the fluid force coefficients and the velocity profile of the boundary layer. The boundary layer velocity profile is then used to predict the flow field and noise levels, allowing the direct integration of the coupled fluid-acoustic analysis in the shape optimization algorithm. The fluid-acoustic shape optimization is extended to multi-objective shape optimization by minimizing trailing edge noise while maximizing the aerodynamic performance of airfoil surfaces. The results show that the overall sound pressure level of the optimized airfoil decreases by 13.9\% (15.82 dBA), and the lift coefficient increases by 7.2\%, for a fixed set of operating conditions. The proposed GNN-based integrated surrogate modeling with the shape optimization algorithm exhibits a computational speed-up of three orders of magnitude compared to while maintaining reasonable accuracy compared to full-order online optimization applications. The GNN-based surrogate model offers an efficient computational framework for fluid-acoustic shape optimization via adaptive morphing of structures.


---
# Ion-Scale Solitary Structures in the Solar Wind Observed by Solar Orbiter and Parker Solar Probe

## 太阳轨道器和帕克太阳探测器观测到的太阳风中的离子尺度孤立结构

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16824

**Authors:** Yufei Yang (Imperial College London, UK), Timothy S. Horbury (Imperial College London, UK), Domenico Trotta (Imperial College London, UK, European Space Agency), Lorenzo Matteini (Imperial College London, UK), Joseph Wang (Imperial College London, UK), Andrey Fedorov (Institut de Recherche en Astrophysique et Plan\'etologie, CNRS, Universit\'e de Toulouse, CNES, Toulouse, France), Philippe Louarn (Institut de Recherche en Astrophysique et Plan\'etologie, CNRS, Universit\'e de Toulouse, CNES, Toulouse, France), Stuart Bale (Physics Department, University of California, Berkeley, CA, USA, Space Sciences Laboratory, University of California, Berkeley, CA, USA), Marc Pulupa (Space Sciences Laboratory, University of California, Berkeley, USA), Davin E. Larson (Space Sciences Laboratory, University of California, Berkeley, USA), Michael Stevens (Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, Cambridge, MA, USA), Milan Maksimovic (CNRS D\'el\'egation \^Ile-de-France Ouest et Nord, Meudon, France), Yuri Khotyaintsev (Swedish Institute of Space Physics, Uppsala, Sweden), Andrea Larosa (Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche, Bari, Italy)

arXiv:2412.16824v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We investigate a class of ion-scale magnetic solitary structures in the solar wind, characterized by distinct magnetic field enhancements and bipolar rotations over spatial scales of several proton inertial lengths. Previously tentatively identified as Alfv\'enic solitons, these structures are revisited using high-resolution data from the Solar Orbiter and Parker Solar Probe missions. Using a machine learning-based method, we identified nearly a thousand such structures, providing new insights into their evolution and physical properties. Statistical analysis shows that these structures are more abundant closer to the Sun, with occurrence rates peaking around 30-40 solar radii and declining at greater distances, suggesting that they decay. High-cadence measurements reveal that these structures are predominantly found in low-beta environments, with consistent fluctuations in density, velocity, and magnetic field. Magnetic field enhancements are often accompanied by plasma density drops, which, under near pressure balance, limit field increases. This leads to small fractional field enhancements near the Sun (approximately 0.01 at 20 solar radii), making detection challenging. Magnetic field variance analysis indicates that these structures are primarily oblique to the local magnetic field. Alfv\'enic velocity-magnetic field correlations suggest that most of these structures propagate sunward in the plasma frame, distinguishing them from typical solar wind fluctuations. We compare these findings with previous studies, discussing possible generation mechanisms and their implications for the turbulent cascade in the near-Sun Alfv\'enic solar wind. Further high-resolution observations and simulations are needed to fully understand their origins and impacts.


---
# AeroDiT: Diffusion Transformers for Reynolds-Averaged Navier-Stokes Simulations of Airfoil Flows

## AeroDiT: 用于翼型流的雷诺平均navier-stokes模拟的扩散变压器

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.17394

**Authors:** Hui Xiang, Yuan Ma, Zhibo Dai, Chunyang Wang, Baiyi Zhang

arXiv:2412.17394v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Real-time and accurate prediction of aerodynamic flow fields around airfoils is crucial for flow control and aerodynamic optimization. However, achieving this remains challenging due to the high computational costs and the non-linear nature of flow physics. Traditional Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) methods face limitations in balancing computational efficiency and accuracy, hindering their application in real-time scenarios. To address these challenges, this study presents AeroDiT, a novel surrogate model that integrates scalable diffusion models with transformer architectures to address these challenges. Trained on Reynolds-Averaged Navier-Stokes (RANS) simulation data for high Reynolds-number airfoil flows, AeroDiT accurately captures complex flow patterns while enabling real-time predictions. The model demonstrates impressive performance, with average relative L2 errors of 0.1, 0.025, and 0.050 for pressure p and velocity components ux, uy, confirming its reliability. The transformer-based structure allows for real-time predictions within seconds, outperforming traditional U-net diffusion models. This work underscores the potential of generative machine learning techniques to advance computational fluid dynamics, offering potential solutions to persistent challenges in simulating high-fidelity aerodynamic flows.


---
# Uncertainties of Satellite-based Essential Climate Variables from Deep Learning

## 基于深度学习的卫星基本气候变量的不确定性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.17506

**Authors:** Junyang Gou, Arnt-B{\o}rre Salberg, Mostafa Kiani Shahvandi, Mohammad J. Tourian, Ulrich Meyer, Eva Boergens, Anders U. Waldeland, Isabella Velicogna, Fredrik Dahl, Adrian J\"aggi, Konrad Schindler, Benedikt Soja

arXiv:2412.17506v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Accurate uncertainty information associated with essential climate variables (ECVs) is crucial for reliable climate modeling and understanding the spatiotemporal evolution of the Earth system. In recent years, geoscience and climate scientists have benefited from rapid progress in deep learning to advance the estimation of ECV products with improved accuracy. However, the quantification of uncertainties associated with the output of such deep learning models has yet to be thoroughly adopted. This survey explores the types of uncertainties associated with ECVs estimated from deep learning and the techniques to quantify them. The focus is on highlighting the importance of quantifying uncertainties inherent in ECV estimates, considering the dynamic and multifaceted nature of climate data. The survey starts by clarifying the definition of aleatoric and epistemic uncertainties and their roles in a typical satellite observation processing workflow, followed by bridging the gap between conventional statistical and deep learning views on uncertainties. Then, we comprehensively review the existing techniques for quantifying uncertainties associated with deep learning algorithms, focusing on their application in ECV studies. The specific need for modification to fit the requirements from both the Earth observation side and the deep learning side in such interdisciplinary tasks is discussed. Finally, we demonstrate our findings with two ECV examples, snow cover and terrestrial water storage, and provide our perspectives for future research.


---
# Is AI Robust Enough for Scientific Research?

## AI对于科学研究是否足够强大？

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16234

**Authors:** Jun-Jie Zhang, Jiahao Song, Xiu-Cheng Wang, Fu-Peng Li, Zehan Liu, Jian-Nan Chen, Haoning Dang, Shiyao Wang, Yiyan Zhang, Jianhui Xu, Chunxiang Shi, Fei Wang, Long-Gang Pang, Nan Cheng, Weiwei Zhang, Duo Zhang, Deyu Meng

arXiv:2412.16234v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We uncover a phenomenon largely overlooked by the scientific community utilizing AI: neural networks exhibit high susceptibility to minute perturbations, resulting in significant deviations in their outputs. Through an analysis of five diverse application areas -- weather forecasting, chemical energy and force calculations, fluid dynamics, quantum chromodynamics, and wireless communication -- we demonstrate that this vulnerability is a broad and general characteristic of AI systems. This revelation exposes a hidden risk in relying on neural networks for essential scientific computations, calling further studies on their reliability and security.


---
# Decoding fairness: a reinforcement learning perspective

## 解码公平: 强化学习视角

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16249

**Authors:** Guozhong Zheng, Jiqiang Zhang, Xin Ou, Shengfeng Deng, Li Chen

arXiv:2412.16249v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Behavioral experiments on the ultimatum game (UG) reveal that we humans prefer fair acts, which contradicts the prediction made in orthodox Economics. Existing explanations, however, are mostly attributed to exogenous factors within the imitation learning framework. Here, we adopt the reinforcement learning paradigm, where individuals make their moves aiming to maximize their accumulated rewards. Specifically, we apply Q-learning to UG, where each player is assigned two Q-tables to guide decisions for the roles of proposer and responder. In a two-player scenario, fairness emerges prominently when both experiences and future rewards are appreciated. In particular, the probability of successful deals increases with higher offers, which aligns with observations in behavioral experiments. Our mechanism analysis reveals that the system undergoes two phases, eventually stabilizing into fair or rational strategies. These results are robust when the rotating role assignment is replaced by a random or fixed manner, or the scenario is extended to a latticed population. Our findings thus conclude that the endogenous factor is sufficient to explain the emergence of fairness, exogenous factors are not needed.


---
# Iterative Encoding-Decoding VAEs Anomaly Detection in NOAA's DART Time Series: A Machine Learning Approach for Enhancing Data Integrity for NASA's GRACE-FO Verification and Validation

## NOAA DART时间序列中的迭代编码-解码VAEs异常检测: 一种用于增强NASA grace-fo验证和确认的数据完整性的机器学习方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16375

**Authors:** Kevin Lee

arXiv:2412.16375v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: NOAA's Deep-ocean Assessment and Reporting of Tsunamis (DART) data are critical for NASA-JPL's tsunami detection, real-time operations, and oceanographic research. However, these time-series data often contain spikes, steps, and drifts that degrade data quality and obscure essential oceanographic features. To address these anomalies, the work introduces an Iterative Encoding-Decoding Variational Autoencoders (Iterative Encoding-Decoding VAEs) model to improve the quality of DART time series. Unlike traditional filtering and thresholding methods that risk distorting inherent signal characteristics, Iterative Encoding-Decoding VAEs progressively remove anomalies while preserving the data's latent structure. A hybrid thresholding approach further retains genuine oceanographic features near boundaries. Applied to complex DART datasets, this approach yields reconstructions that better maintain key oceanic properties compared to classical statistical techniques, offering improved robustness against spike removal and subtle step changes. The resulting high-quality data supports critical verification and validation efforts for the GRACE-FO mission at NASA-JPL, where accurate surface measurements are essential to modeling Earth's gravitational field and global water dynamics. Ultimately, this data processing method enhances tsunami detection and underpins future climate modeling with improved interpretability and reliability.


---
# Condensed Stein Variational Gradient Descent for Uncertainty Quantification of Neural Networks

## 用于神经网络不确定性量化的压缩Stein变分梯度下降

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16462

**Authors:** Govinda Anantha Padmanabha, Cosmin Safta, Nikolaos Bouklas, Reese E. Jones

arXiv:2412.16462v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We propose a Stein variational gradient descent method to concurrently sparsify, train, and provide uncertainty quantification of a complexly parameterized model such as a neural network. It employs a graph reconciliation and condensation process to reduce complexity and increase similarity in the Stein ensemble of parameterizations. Therefore, the proposed condensed Stein variational gradient (cSVGD) method provides uncertainty quantification on parameters, not just outputs. Furthermore, the parameter reduction speeds up the convergence of the Stein gradient descent as it reduces the combinatorial complexity by aligning and differentiating the sensitivity to parameters. These properties are demonstrated with an illustrative example and an application to a representation problem in solid mechanics.


---
# MOL-Mamba: Enhancing Molecular Representation with Structural & Electronic Insights

## Mol-mamba: 通过结构和电子见解增强分子表征

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16483

**Authors:** Jingjing Hu, Dan Guo, Zhan Si, Deguang Liu, Yunfeng Diao, Jing Zhang, Jinxing Zhou, Meng Wang

arXiv:2412.16483v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Molecular representation learning plays a crucial role in various downstream tasks, such as molecular property prediction and drug design. To accurately represent molecules, Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) and Graph Transformers (GTs) have shown potential in the realm of self-supervised pretraining. However, existing approaches often overlook the relationship between molecular structure and electronic information, as well as the internal semantic reasoning within molecules. This omission of fundamental chemical knowledge in graph semantics leads to incomplete molecular representations, missing the integration of structural and electronic data. To address these issues, we introduce MOL-Mamba, a framework that enhances molecular representation by combining structural and electronic insights. MOL-Mamba consists of an Atom & Fragment Mamba-Graph (MG) for hierarchical structural reasoning and a Mamba-Transformer (MT) fuser for integrating molecular structure and electronic correlation learning. Additionally, we propose a Structural Distribution Collaborative Training and E-semantic Fusion Training framework to further enhance molecular representation learning. Extensive experiments demonstrate that MOL-Mamba outperforms state-of-the-art baselines across eleven chemical-biological molecular datasets. Code is available at https://github.com/xian-sh/MOL-Mamba.


---
# Physics-Guided Fair Graph Sampling for Water Temperature Prediction in River Networks

## 物理指导的公平图采样用于河网水温预测

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16523

**Authors:** Erhu He, Declan Kutscher, Yiqun Xie, Jacob Zwart, Zhe Jiang, Huaxiu Yao, Xiaowei Jia

arXiv:2412.16523v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: This work introduces a novel graph neural networks (GNNs)-based method to predict stream water temperature and reduce model bias across locations of different income and education levels. Traditional physics-based models often have limited accuracy because they are necessarily approximations of reality. Recently, there has been an increasing interest of using GNNs in modeling complex water dynamics in stream networks. Despite their promise in improving the accuracy, GNNs can bring additional model bias through the aggregation process, where node features are updated by aggregating neighboring nodes. The bias can be especially pronounced when nodes with similar sensitive attributes are frequently connected. We introduce a new method that leverages physical knowledge to represent the node influence in GNNs, and then utilizes physics-based influence to refine the selection and weights over the neighbors. The objective is to facilitate equitable treatment over different sensitive groups in the graph aggregation, which helps reduce spatial bias over locations, especially for those in underprivileged groups. The results on the Delaware River Basin demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method in preserving equitable performance across locations in different sensitive groups.


---
# Universal Machine Learning Interatomic Potentials are Ready for Phonons

## 通用机器学习原子间势已为声子做好准备

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16551

**Authors:** Antoine Loew, Dewen Sun, Hai-Chen Wang, Silvana Botti, Miguel A. L. Marques

arXiv:2412.16551v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: There has been an ongoing race for the past couple of years to develop the best universal machine learning interatomic potential. This rapid growth has driven researchers to create increasingly accurate models for predicting energy, forces, and stresses, combining innovative architectures with big data. Here, these models are benchmarked for their performance in predicting phonon properties, which are critical for understanding the vibrational and thermal behavior of materials. Our analysis is based on around 10 000 ab initio phonon calculations, enabling us to assess performance across a range of phonon-related parameters while testing the universal applicability of these models. The results reveal that some models are already capable of predicting phonon properties with a high level of accuracy. However, others still exhibit substantial inaccuracies, even if they excel in the prediction of the energy and the forces for materials close to dynamical equilibrium. These findings highlight the importance of considering phonon-related properties in the development of universal machine learning interatomic potentials.


---
# A Generalizable 3D Diffusion Framework for Low-Dose and Few-View Cardiac SPECT

## 用于低剂量和少视角心脏SPECT的可推广的3D扩散框架

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16573

**Authors:** Huidong Xie, Weijie Gan, Wei Ji, Xiongchao Chen, Alaa Alashi, Stephanie L. Thorn, Bo Zhou, Qiong Liu, Menghua Xia, Xueqi Guo, Yi-Hwa Liu, Hongyu An, Ulugbek S. Kamilov, Ge Wang, Albert J. Sinusas, Chi Liu

arXiv:2412.16573v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Myocardial perfusion imaging using SPECT is widely utilized to diagnose coronary artery diseases, but image quality can be negatively affected in low-dose and few-view acquisition settings. Although various deep learning methods have been introduced to improve image quality from low-dose or few-view SPECT data, previous approaches often fail to generalize across different acquisition settings, limiting their applicability in reality. This work introduced DiffSPECT-3D, a diffusion framework for 3D cardiac SPECT imaging that effectively adapts to different acquisition settings without requiring further network re-training or fine-tuning. Using both image and projection data, a consistency strategy is proposed to ensure that diffusion sampling at each step aligns with the low-dose/few-view projection measurements, the image data, and the scanner geometry, thus enabling generalization to different low-dose/few-view settings. Incorporating anatomical spatial information from CT and total variation constraint, we proposed a 2.5D conditional strategy to allow the DiffSPECT-3D to observe 3D contextual information from the entire image volume, addressing the 3D memory issues in diffusion model. We extensively evaluated the proposed method on 1,325 clinical 99mTc tetrofosmin stress/rest studies from 795 patients. Each study was reconstructed into 5 different low-count and 5 different few-view levels for model evaluations, ranging from 1% to 50% and from 1 view to 9 view, respectively. Validated against cardiac catheterization results and diagnostic comments from nuclear cardiologists, the presented results show the potential to achieve low-dose and few-view SPECT imaging without compromising clinical performance. Additionally, DiffSPECT-3D could be directly applied to full-dose SPECT images to further improve image quality, especially in a low-dose stress-first cardiac SPECT imaging protocol.


---
# Point defect formation at finite temperatures with machine learning force fields

## 具有机器学习力场的有限温度下的点缺陷形成

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16741

**Authors:** Irea Mosquera-Lois, Johan Klarbring, Aron Walsh

arXiv:2412.16741v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Point defects dictate the properties of many functional materials. The standard approach to modelling the thermodynamics of defects relies on a static description, where the change in Gibbs free energy is approximated by the internal energy. This approach has a low computational cost, but ignores contributions from atomic vibrations and structural configurations that can be accessed at finite temperatures. We train a machine learning force field (MLFF) to explore dynamic defect behaviour using $\mathrm{Te_i^{+1}}$ and $\textit{V}{\mathrm{_{Te}^{+2}}}$ in CdTe as exemplars. We consider the different entropic contributions (e.g., electronic, spin, vibrational, orientational, and configurational) and compare methods to compute the defect free energies, ranging from a harmonic treatment to a fully anharmonic approach based on thermodynamic integration. We find that metastable configurations are populated at room temperature and thermal effects increase the predicted concentration of $\mathrm{Te_i^{+1}}$ by two orders of magnitude -- and can thus significantly affect the predicted properties. Overall, our study underscores the importance of finite-temperature effects and the potential of MLFFs to model defect dynamics at both synthesis and device operating temperatures.


---
# Paraformer: Parameterization of Sub-grid Scale Processes Using Transformers

## Paraformer: 使用变压器的子网格规模过程的参数化

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16763

**Authors:** Shuochen Wang, Nishant Yadav, Auroop R. Ganguly

arXiv:2412.16763v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: One of the major sources of uncertainty in the current generation of Global Climate Models (GCMs) is the representation of sub-grid scale physical processes. Over the years, a series of deep-learning-based parameterization schemes have been developed and tested on both idealized and real-geography GCMs. However, datasets on which previous deep-learning models were trained either contain limited variables or have low spatial-temporal coverage, which can not fully simulate the parameterization process. Additionally, these schemes rely on classical architectures while the latest attention mechanism used in Transformer models remains unexplored in this field. In this paper, we propose Paraformer, a "memory-aware" Transformer-based model on ClimSim, the largest dataset ever created for climate parameterization. Our results demonstrate that the proposed model successfully captures the complex non-linear dependencies in the sub-grid scale variables and outperforms classical deep-learning architectures. This work highlights the applicability of the attenuation mechanism in this field and provides valuable insights for developing future deep-learning-based climate parameterization schemes.


---
# Symplectic Neural Flows for Modeling and Discovery

## 用于建模和发现的辛神经流

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16787

**Authors:** Priscilla Canizares, Davide Murari, Carola-Bibiane Sch\"onlieb, Ferdia Sherry, Zakhar Shumaylov

arXiv:2412.16787v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Hamilton's equations are fundamental for modeling complex physical systems, where preserving key properties such as energy and momentum is crucial for reliable long-term simulations. Geometric integrators are widely used for this purpose, but neural network-based methods that incorporate these principles remain underexplored. This work introduces SympFlow, a time-dependent symplectic neural network designed using parameterized Hamiltonian flow maps. This design allows for backward error analysis and ensures the preservation of the symplectic structure. SympFlow allows for two key applications: (i) providing a time-continuous symplectic approximation of the exact flow of a Hamiltonian system--purely based on the differential equations it satisfies, and (ii) approximating the flow map of an unknown Hamiltonian system relying on trajectory data. We demonstrate the effectiveness of SympFlow on diverse problems, including chaotic and dissipative systems, showing improved energy conservation compared to general-purpose numerical methods and accurate


---
# Broadband Ground Motion Synthesis by Diffusion Model with Minimal Condition

## 具有最小条件的扩散模型的宽带地震动综合

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.17333

**Authors:** Jaeheun Jung, Jaehyuk Lee, Chang-Hae Jung, Hanyoung Kim, Bosung Jung, Donghun Lee

arXiv:2412.17333v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Earthquakes are rare. Hence there is a fundamental call for reliable methods to generate realistic ground motion data for data-driven approaches in seismology. Recent GAN-based methods fall short of the call, as the methods either require special information such as geological traits or generate subpar waveforms that fail to satisfy seismological constraints such as phase arrival times. We propose a specialized Latent Diffusion Model (LDM) that reliably generates realistic waveforms after learning from real earthquake data with minimal conditions: location and magnitude. We also design a domain-specific training method that exploits the traits of earthquake dataset: multiple observed waveforms time-aligned and paired to each earthquake source that are tagged with seismological metadata comprised of earthquake magnitude, depth of focus, and the locations of epicenter and seismometers. We construct the time-aligned earthquake dataset using Southern California Earthquake Data Center (SCEDC) API, and train our model with the dataset and our proposed training method for performance evaluation. Our model surpasses all comparable data-driven methods in various test criteria not only from waveform generation domain but also from seismology such as phase arrival time, GMPE analysis, and spectrum analysis. Our result opens new future research directions for deep learning applications in seismology.


---
# HPCNeuroNet: A Neuromorphic Approach Merging SNN Temporal Dynamics with Transformer Attention for FPGA-based Particle Physics

## HPCNeuroNet: 一种神经形态方法，将SNN时间动力学与基于FPGA的粒子物理学的变压器注意力相结合

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.17571

**Authors:** Murat Isik, Hiruna Vishwamith, Jonathan Naoukin, I. Can Dikmen

arXiv:2412.17571v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: This paper presents the innovative HPCNeuroNet model, a pioneering fusion of Spiking Neural Networks (SNNs), Transformers, and high-performance computing tailored for particle physics, particularly in particle identification from detector responses. Our approach leverages SNNs' intrinsic temporal dynamics and Transformers' robust attention mechanisms to enhance performance when discerning intricate particle interactions. At the heart of HPCNeuroNet lies the integration of the sequential dynamism inherent in SNNs with the context-aware attention capabilities of Transformers, enabling the model to precisely decode and interpret complex detector data. HPCNeuroNet is realized through the HLS4ML framework and optimized for deployment in FPGA environments. The model accuracy and scalability are also enhanced by this architectural choice. Benchmarked against machine learning models, HPCNeuroNet showcases better performance metrics, underlining its transformative potential in high-energy physics. We demonstrate that the combination of SNNs, Transformers, and FPGA-based high-performance computing in particle physics signifies a significant step forward and provides a strong foundation for future research.


---
# eminus -- Pythonic electronic structure theory

## eminus -- Pythonic电子结构理论

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.19438

**Authors:** Wanja Timm Schulze, Sebastian Schwalbe, Kai Trepte, Stefanie Gr\"afe

arXiv:2410.19438v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: In current electronic structure research endeavors such as warm dense matter or machine learning applications, efficient development necessitates non-monolithic software, providing an extendable and flexible interface. The open-source idea offers the advantage of having a source code base that can be reviewed and modified by the community. However, practical implementations can often diverge significantly from their theoretical counterpart. Leveraging the efforts of recent theoretical formulations and the features of Python, we try to mitigate these problems. We present eminus, an education- and development-friendly electronic structure package designed for convenient and customizable workflows, yet built with intelligible and modular implementations.


---
# Online learning in idealized ocean gyres

## 理想化海洋环流中的在线学习

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.06393

**Authors:** James R. Maddison

arXiv:2412.06393v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Ocean turbulence parameterization has principally been based on processed-based approaches, seeking to embed physical principles so that coarser resolution calculations can capture the net influence of smaller scale unresolved processes. More recently there has been an increasing focus on the application of data-driven approaches to this problem. Here we consider the application of online learning to data-driven eddy parameterization, constructing an end-to-end differentiable dynamical solver forced by a neural network, and training the neural network based on the dynamics of the combined hybrid system. This approach is applied to the classic barotropic Stommel-Munk gyre problem -- a highly idealized configuration which nevertheless includes multiple flow regimes, boundary dynamics, and a separating jet, and therefore presents a challenging test case for the online learning approach. It is found that a neural network which is suitably trained can lead to a coarse resolution neural network parameterized model which is stable, and has both a reasonable mean state and intrinsic variability. This suggests that online learning is a powerful tool for studying the problem of ocean turbulence parameterization.


---
# ControlMol: Adding Substructure Control To Molecule Diffusion Models

## ControlMol: 向分子扩散模型添加子结构控制

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06659

**Authors:** Qi Zhengyang, Liu Zijing, Zhang Jiying, Cao He, Li Yu

arXiv:2405.06659v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Due to the vast design space of molecules, generating molecules conditioned on a specific sub-structure relevant to a particular function or therapeutic target is a crucial task in computer-aided drug design. Existing works mainly focus on specific tasks, such as linker design or scaffold hopping, each task requires training a model from scratch, and many well-pretrained De Novo molecule generation model parameters are not effectively utilized. To this end, we propose a two-stage training approach, consisting of condition learning and condition optimization. In the condition learning stage, we adopt the idea of ControlNet and design some meaningful adjustments to make the unconditional generative model learn sub-structure conditioned generation. In the condition optimization stage, by using human preference learning, we further enhance the stability and robustness of sub-structure control. In our experiments, only trained on randomly partitioned sub-structure data, the proposed method outperforms previous techniques by generating more valid and diverse molecules. Our method is easy to implement and can be quickly applied to various pre-trained molecule generation models.


---
# Zero-temperature Monte Carlo simulations of two-dimensional quantum spin glasses guided by neural network states

## 神经网络态引导的二维量子自旋玻璃的零温蒙特卡罗模拟

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.05978

**Authors:** L. Brodoloni, S. Pilati

arXiv:2407.05978v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: A continuous-time projection quantum Monte Carlo algorithm is employed to simulate the ground state of a short-range quantum spin-glass model, namely, the two-dimensional Edwards-Anderson Hamiltonian with transverse field, featuring Gaussian nearest-neighbor couplings. We numerically demonstrate that guiding wave functions based on self-learned neural networks suppress the population control bias below modest statistical uncertainties, at least up to a hundred spins. By projecting a two-fold replicated Hamiltonian, the spin overlap is determined. A finite-size scaling analysis is performed to estimate the critical transverse field where the spin-glass transition occurs, as well as the critical exponents of the correlation length and the spin-glass susceptibility. For the latter two, good agreement is found with recent estimates from the literature for different random couplings. We also address the spin-overlap distribution within the spin-glass phase, finding that, for the workable system sizes, it displays a non-trivial double-peak shape with large weight at zero overlap.


---
# Context-aware knowledge graph framework for traffic speed forecasting using graph neural network

## 基于图神经网络的上下文感知知识图谱交通速度预测框架

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.17703

**Authors:** Yatao Zhang, Yi Wang, Song Gao, Martin Raubal

arXiv:2407.17703v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Human mobility is intricately influenced by urban contexts spatially and temporally, constituting essential domain knowledge in understanding traffic systems. While existing traffic forecasting models primarily rely on raw traffic data and advanced deep learning techniques, incorporating contextual information remains underexplored due to insufficient integration frameworks and the complexity of urban contexts. This study proposes a novel context-aware knowledge graph (CKG) framework to enhance traffic speed forecasting by effectively modeling spatial and temporal contexts. Employing a relation-dependent integration strategy, the framework generates context-aware representations from the spatial and temporal units of CKG to capture spatio-temporal dependencies of urban contexts. A CKG-GNN model, combining the CKG, dual-view multi-head self-attention (MHSA), and graph neural network (GNN), is then designed to predict traffic speed utilizing these context-aware representations. Our experiments demonstrate that CKG's configuration significantly influences embedding performance, with ComplEx and KG2E emerging as optimal for embedding spatial and temporal units, respectively. The CKG-GNN model establishes a benchmark for 10-120 min predictions, achieving average MAE, MAPE, and RMSE of $3.46\pm0.01$, $14.76\pm0.09\%$, and $5.08\pm0.01$, respectively. Compared to the baseline DCRNN model, integrating the spatial unit improves the MAE by 0.04 and the temporal unit by 0.13, while integrating both units further reduces it by 0.18. The dual-view MHSA analysis reveals the crucial role of relation-dependent features from the context-based view and the model's ability to prioritize recent time slots in prediction from the sequence-based view. Overall, this study underscores the importance of merging context-aware knowledge graphs with graph neural networks to improve traffic forecasting.


---
# Fast Perfekt: Regression-based refinement of fast simulation

## Fast Perfekt: 基于回归的快速仿真精化

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.15992

**Authors:** Moritz Wolf, Lars O. Stietz, Patrick L. S. Connor, Peter Schleper, Samuel Bein

arXiv:2410.15992v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: The availability of precise and accurate simulation is a limiting factor for interpreting and forecasting data in many fields of science and engineering. Often, one or more distinct simulation software applications are developed, each with a relative advantage in accuracy or speed. The quality of insights extracted from the data stands to increase if the accuracy of faster, more economical simulation could be improved to parity or near parity with more resource-intensive but accurate simulation. We present Fast Perfekt, a machine-learned regression that employs residual neural networks to refine the output of fast simulations. A deterministic morphing model is trained using a unique schedule that makes use of the ensemble loss function MMD, with the option of an additional pair-based loss function such as the MSE. We explore this methodology in the context of an abstract analytical model and in terms of a realistic particle physics application featuring jet properties in hadron collisions at the CERN Large Hadron Collider. The refinement makes maximum use of domain knowledge, and introduces minimal computational overhead to production.


---
# CHIPS-FF: Evaluating Universal Machine Learning Force Fields for Material Properties

## CHIPS-FF: 评估材料特性的通用机器学习力场

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10516

**Authors:** Daniel Wines, Kamal Choudhary

arXiv:2412.10516v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: In this work, we introduce CHIPS-FF (Computational High-Performance Infrastructure for Predictive Simulation-based Force Fields), a universal, open-source benchmarking platform for machine learning force fields (MLFFs). This platform provides robust evaluation beyond conventional metrics such as energy, focusing on complex properties including elastic constants, phonon spectra, defect formation energies, surface energies, and interfacial and amorphous phase properties. Utilizing 13 graph-based MLFF models including ALIGNN-FF, CHGNet, MatGL, MACE, SevenNet, ORB and OMat24, the CHIPS-FF workflow integrates the Atomic Simulation Environment (ASE) with JARVIS-Tools to facilitate automated high-throughput simulations. Our framework is tested on a set of 104 materials, including metals, semiconductors and insulators representative of those used in semiconductor components, with each MLFF evaluated for convergence, accuracy, and computational cost. Additionally, we evaluate the force-prediction accuracy of these models for close to 2 million atomic structures. By offering a streamlined, flexible benchmarking infrastructure, CHIPS-FF aims to guide the development and deployment of MLFFs for real-world semiconductor applications, bridging the gap between quantum mechanical simulations and large-scale device modeling.


---
# Physics-assisted machine learning for slurry drying simulation in manufacturing process of battery electrodes: A hybrid time-dependent VGG16-DEM model

## 电池电极制造过程中浆料干燥仿真的物理辅助机器学习: 混合时间相关VGG16-DEM模型

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-w4h5s?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Francisco, Fernandez

In this study, we present a hybrid Physics-Assisted Machine Learning (PAML) model that integrates Deep Learning (DL) techniques with the classical Discrete Element Method (DEM) to simulate the slurry drying during a lithium ion battery electrode manufacturing process. This model predicts the microstructure evolution leading to the formation of the electrode, as a time-series along the drying process. The hybrid approach consists in performing a certain amount of DEM simulation steps, n_DEM, after every DL prediction, mitigating the risk of unphysical predictions, like overlapping particles. Our PAML model was rigorously tested by evaluating different functional metrics of the predicted electrodes, including density, porosity, tortuosity factor, and radial distribution function. 
We conducted an in-depth analysis of performance versus accuracy, particularly focusing on the impact of the n_DEM hyperparameter, which represents the number of DEM steps executed between two subsequent DL predictions. Despite the model being trained on a specific formulation (96% of Active Material, AM, and 4% of Carbon Binder Domain, CBD), it demonstrated exceptional generalization capability when used to extrapolate to a different formulation (94% AM and 6% CBD). This adaptability highlights the robustness of our PAML hybrid approach. Furthermore, the integration of DL significantly reduced the computational cost of the original DEM model, decreasing the processing time from 34.2 minutes per step to approximately 2 minutes per step. Our findings underscore the potential of combining ML with traditional simulation methods to enhance efficiency and accuracy in the field of electrode manufacturing.


---
# Large-scale stretchable neuromorphic circuits for on-body edge processing of sensory data

## 用于传感数据的身体边缘处理的大规模可拉伸神经形态电路

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-80dvr?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Sihong, Wang

The rapid development of intrinsically stretchable electronics for use on the human bodies and robots has significantly enhanced the ability to collect multi-modal data at high spatiotemporal resolutions, over extended periods, and across diverse body locations. This progress has generated a growing demand for enhanced computing capabilities to process sensory data, making near-sensor edge computing an attractive solution. Stretchable organic electrochemical transistors (OECTs) have been demonstrated to be as a viable platform for integrating neuromorphic edge computing functions into these human-interfaced systems. However, the lack of a scalable fabrication method for stretchable OECT arrays and circuits has limited the achievable computing complexity. Here, we address this limitation through synergistic innovations in material designs and device fabrication processes, enabling large-scale, intrinsically stretchable OECT arrays with a high density of up to 10,000 transistors per cm2. These OECT devices exhibit good synaptic performance in terms of linear, precise, and repeatable programming of conductance states, as well as a good retention time. With high performance uniformity at these integration levels, we have unprecedentedly utilized a stretchable circuit to achieve the hardware implementation of artificial neural network (ANN) for processing health data, including physiological data for heart-attack risk assessment and kernel convolution for locating propagation wavefronts in cardiac ventricular fibrillation. Additionally, we explored the potential of implementing reinforcement learning algorithms for robotic applications.


---
# MacroSimGNN: Efficient and Accurate Calculation of Macromolecule Pairwise Similarity via Graph Neural Network

## MacroSimGNN: 通过图神经网络高效准确地计算大分子成对相似性

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-8hs2k?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Debra, Audus

Efficient and accurate calculation of macromolecule pairwise similarity is essential for developing database search engines and is useful for machine learning based predictive tools. Existing methods for calculating macromolecular similarity suffer from significant drawbacks. Graph edit distance is accurate but computationally expensive, and graph kernel methods are computationally efficient but inaccurate. This study introduces a graph neural network model, MacroSimGNN, which significantly improves computational efficiency while maintaining high accuracy on macromolecule pairwise similarity. Furthermore, this approach enables feature embeddings based on macromolecular similarities to a set of landmark molecules, enhancing both unsupervised and supervised learning tasks. This method represents a significant advancement in macromolecular cheminformatics, paving the way for the development of advanced search engines and data-driven design of macromolecules.


---
# RandomNets Improve Neural Network Regression Performance via Implicit Ensembling

## 随机网络通过隐式集成提高神经网络回归性能

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-dsh9t?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Esben Jannik, Bjerrum

Artificial feed-forward neural networks have long been recognized as powerful machine learning models and are widely used in QSAR and QSPR modeling of molecular properties. Inspired by Random Forest models and the robust techniques of sample and feature bagging, the RandomNets model was developed as an efficient, vectorized solution for ensemble creation, training, and inference. The model adds an extra dimension to the tensors passing through the neural network, combined with input feature masking and optional subsampling of the dataset during training. This vectorized approach improves efficiency and simplifies training and inference of the implicit ensemble. Training a 25-member implicit ensemble requires only twice the time of a comparable baseline network but significantly improves prediction performance, as measured by R² and MSE on test sets from 133 bioactivity datasets, with an average performance increase of around 25%. Compared to the conceptually similar input masking technique using dropout, the implicit ensemble demonstrates reduced sensitivity to hyperparameter choices, similar or improved performance, and a fourfold reduction in training time. Additionally, the implicit ensemble provides the standard deviation of individual predictions, which can help identify uncertain predictions.


---
# Finding Potentially Erroneous Entries in METLIN SMRT

## 在METLIN SMRT中查找可能错误的条目

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-lx6m1?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Andrey, Samokhin

Background:
METLIN SMRT is a widely-used dataset of retention times for high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Besides direct application it is used for training models aimed at predicting retention times in HPLC. Although there are quite a number of articles featuring METLIN SMRT, the pipelines used for filtering from errors are either simplistic or nonexistent. Two more datasets of HPLC retention times - RepoRT and MCMRT - have emerged recently. RepoRT maintainers used a 10-fold cross-validation strategy with gradient boosting models to validate retention times in the database. MCMRT maintainers suggested a projection method for transferring retention times from one chromatographic method to another, but there is no information about applying the method for data validation. Therefore, a reliable method for filtering potentially erroneous entries is still required. 

Results:
An approach to filter potentially erroneous entries, as suggested in our earlier work for a database of gas chromatography retention indexes, was repurposed for METLIN SMRT using five predictive models (GNN, CNN, FCFP, FCD, and CatBoost). The retention times were predicted for the whole dataset using a 5-fold cross-validation strategy. Entries with retention times differing significantly from the predictions (bottom 5%) were flagged with a “yellow card”. This procedure was repeated for each model, leading to obtaining a group containing 1544 entries (about 2% of the dataset) with 5 “yellow cards”. These entries were considered potentially erroneous, as anomalous behavior was observed in the analyzed trends (with the increasing number of “yellow cards”) for both the size of each group and the standard deviation of the predictions. 

Significance:
The previously proposed filtering approach  was expanded to a retention time database, enabling finding potentially erroneous entries in METLIN SMRT. This work demonstrates the viability of the approach and its potential to improve the quality of other large-scale chromatography-related databases both for machine learning and experimental use.


---
# Machine learning for transition state geometry prediction

## 用于过渡态几何预测的机器学习

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-wdtz9?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Matthew N., Grayson

The calculation of transition state (TS) geometries is essential for understanding reaction mechanisms and rational synthetic methodology design. However, traditional methods like density functional theory (DFT) are often too computationally expensive for large-scale TS identification and are significantly slower than high-throughput experimental screening methods. Recent advancements in machine learning (ML) offer promising alternatives, enabling the direct prediction of TS geometries, reducing the reliance on expensive quantum mechanical (QM) calculations and affording predictions ahead of experiment. The works explored here include the broader application of ML in reaction property prediction, emphasising how accurate TS geometries can serve as vital input data to improve model accuracy. A comprehensive review of ML methods developed to explicitly predict TS geometries are then presented, with attention to their application in downstream tasks, such as energy barrier calculations, and their use as initial structures for further optimisation via QM methods. Finally, a critical evaluation of the accuracy and limitations of existing TS prediction methods are discussed, highlighting challenges that impede wider adoption and areas where further research is needed.


---
# Predicting the electron density of charged systems using machine learning

## 使用机器学习预测带电系统的电子密度

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-rq1ql?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Svetha, Venkatesh

The prediction of the electron density in molecules and crystals is a key pillar in the first principles computation of their properties. Using machine learning to predict the electron density by using the atomic structure alone can save the computational cost of performing first principles computations. While various machine learning approaches have been introduced for predicting the electron density, none of them predicts the electron density for charged systems. This work extends a recent machine learning charge density model, DeepDFT, by including the charge of the structure as an input parameter into the model. We establish an input charge representation approach that successfully predicts the charged electron densities for several test cases, including charged defective perovskites, LiCoO$_2$ supercells with multiple Li vacancies, diamond-based defects, metal organic frameworks and molecular crystals.


---
# User Profiles and Perceptions for Predicting Acceptance with Fairness Assessment in Border Control Technologies

## 在边境控制技术中通过公平评估预测接受度的用户配置文件和感知

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5396512/latest

In 2013, European border crossing points (BCPs) introduced border control technologies (BCTs) aimed at improving efficiency and security. However, these technologies face challenges in user adoption and acceptance, often due to limited traveler awareness and support at BCPs. Traditional models like the technology acceptance model (TAM) rely on structured data and struggle with complex, non-linear relationships, limiting their effectiveness in predicting technology acceptance. Recent advancements in machine learning offer enhanced accuracy for predicting technology acceptance by leveraging unstructured, large-scale data from sources like online social networks (OSNs) or questionnaires. Existing studies have focused primarily on individual attributes like age and gender, with limited attention to how these attributes interact with user perceptions. Despite these advancements, research on technology acceptance prediction for BCTs remains limited, particularly in integrating user profile attributes and perceptions and also no comprehensive relevant dataset exists for this purpose. This study addresses this gap by using an automated approach for developing technology acceptance score dataset that combines user profiles and perception attributes along with investigating how the integration of these attributes impact prediction accuracy and assess its fairness by considering bias and explainable AI (XAI) in the developed models. Our results indicate that this integrated approach significantly enhances the prediction of technology acceptance, with TabTransformer model achieving the highest accuracy of 76%. This study not only contributes to the existing research domain of technology acceptance prediction but also opens new directions for future research into technology acceptance for BCTs as well as for other types of technologies.


---
# Comparison of different machine learning methods for predicting heart disease

## 不同机器学习方法预测心脏病的比较

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5699458/latest

Purpose: The study aims to accurately predict the presence of heart disease using machine learning models. The research evaluates and compares the performance of five algorithms&mdash;Logistic Regression, Support Vector Machine (SVM), Decision Tree, Random Forest, and Gradient Boosting&mdash;on a dataset containing clinical features of patients. The primary research question is to identify which algorithm demonstrates the best predictive performance for heart disease diagnosis.&amp;nbsp;
Methods: The study used a dataset of 270 patients with 13 clinical features. The data was preprocessed, and target variables were converted into binary values for classification. The dataset was split into training and test sets in a 70-30 ratio. Five machine learning models were trained and evaluated using metrics such as accuracy, precision, recall, F1-score, and ROC-AUC. Confusion matrices were analyzed to gain additional insights into model performance.&amp;nbsp;
Results: Logistic Regression and Random Forest achieved the best performance among the models, with accuracies of 86.4% and 80.2%, respectively. Logistic Regression demonstrated an ROC-AUC score of 0.844, while Random Forest scored 0.88. The confusion matrices highlighted the predictive strengths and limitations of each model.&amp;nbsp;
Conclusion: Logistic Regression and Random Forest were identified as the most reliable models for predicting heart disease in this dataset. Future work will explore hyperparameter tuning and ensemble methods to further enhance model performance, providing valuable insights for early diagnosis and treatment of cardiovascular diseases.


---
# Leveraging key-points Motion History Maps for Human Activity Recognition

## 利用关键点运动历史地图进行人类活动识别

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5678495/latest

There has been a great interest in investigating machine learning techniques for rec-ognizing human activities from video sequences or images. The task is particularlychallenging due to potential problems that could appear related to clutter, partial oc-clusion, changes in scale, viewpoint, lighting, and appearance. Additional, many fieldsof applications could require an activity recognition tool including video surveillancesystems, human-computer interaction, e-health applications, and robotics. In this pa-per, we present a novel two-phase approach for extracting and learning knowledgefrom a subset of possible human actions, working in a multi person scenario. Ourapproach first employs a deep neural network to perform the pose estimation and theskeleton key-points extraction of a subject. Successively, the key points are used tofirstly track each subject in the scene and secondly build the motion history images.These ones represent the inputs of a convolutional neural network able to recognizeand correctly classify seven different possible human actions. Despite every sub-blockof our machine learning pipeline being an off-the-shelf solution by itself, the wholesystem represents a pretty impactful innovation. In fact, it enables fast and efficientreal-time multi-target activity recognition, which is something seldomly investigatedin literature, but of great importance for real world applications. Experimental evalu-ations demonstrate that the solution is competitive with existing approaches, reachingan accuracy near to 90% on a real world-dataset.


---
# Exploring multiphase conversion pathways in Li-S batteries through cryo-TEM and ML-assisted operando neutron scattering

## 通过低温透射电镜和ML辅助操作中子散射探索li-s电池中的多相转换途径

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5689820/latest

Understanding the complex physicochemical processes in conversion-type batteries requires investigations across multiple length scales. Here, we present a novel approach to examine Li-S batteries at the nanoscale by combining cryogenic transmission electron microscopy (cryoTEM) with operando small-angle neutron scattering (SANS). CryoTEM revealed discharge products with a biphasic structure, consisting of nanocrystalline Li2S within an amorphous Li2Sx matrix. Data analysis of complementary operando SANS measurements was accelerated by a convolutional neural network trained to predict scattering curves based on plurigaussian random fields, enabling comprehensive parameter space exploration for model fitting. Our findings are in line with disproportionation-driven deposition of Li2S2 particles that agglomerate and partially reduce to Li2S via solid-state conversion. This challenges the conventional view of direct, step-wise electroreduction of polysulfides at the electrode-electrolyte interface. &amp;nbsp;Overall, our multi-technique approach demonstrates the value of combining localized high-resolution imaging with time-resolved operando scattering measurements to understand complex electrochemical conversion pathways in next-generation energy storage systems.


---
# The global carbon balance of forests based on flux towers and forest age data

## 基于通量塔和森林年龄数据的全球森林碳平衡

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5183310/latest

Flux towers worldwide record significant carbon sinks in forests. Still, most sites are situated over young or middle-aged stands at, or close to, the peak of carbon uptake along their successional cycle. As a result, upscaling forest Net Ecosystem Productivity (NEP) &mdash; the difference between gross primary production (GPP) and ecosystem respiration (ER) &mdash; from existing sites to the global scale has been challenging, in contrast to the successful upscaling of GPP and the associated surface energy fluxes. In this study, we combine a recently released forest age map 1, empirical NEP-age relationships and environmental predictors, and machine-learning algorithms to generate gridded estimates of forest NEP for the period circa 2010. The quantified global forest NEP is 6.4 &plusmn; 2.0 PgC year-1. After subtracting carbon losses not measured by flux towers, including fire emissions, harvested biomass, fluvial leaching, and non-CO2 gases released to the atmosphere, we obtain a global net carbon balance of forests remaining forests (NBP) close to 3.0 &plusmn; 2.0 PgC year-1. This value is consistent with those based on forest inventories 2 and atmospheric inversions 3. We report a carbon sink of 1.5 &plusmn; 0.5 PgC year-1 for temperate forests, a value twice as large as that inferred from inventories, largely because inventories may underestimate soil carbon accumulation. Boreal forests show a small source of -0.1 &plusmn; 0.3 PgC year-1. In contrast, tropical forests not subject to degradation and deforestation have an NBP sink of +1.6 &plusmn; 1.1 PgC year-1, larger than what is inferred from biomass inventories. Half of the tropical forest sinks are located in dry forests and woodlands, which have smaller productivity than humid forests but accumulate carbon from a younger age due to frequent fire disturbances. Our results bring a new constraint on the global carbon budget, highlighting the importance of accounting for forest age in upscaling local flux tower data.

