# Fine-tuning neural network quantum states

## 微调神经网络量子态

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevResearch.6.043280

**Authors:** Riccardo Rende, Sebastian Goldt, Federico Becca, and Luciano Loris Viteritti

Author(s): Riccardo Rende, Sebastian Goldt, Federico Becca, and Luciano Loris Viteritti<br /><p>Recent progress in the design and optimization of neural-network quantum states (NQSs) has made them an effective method to investigate ground-state properties of quantum many-body systems. In contrast to the standard approach of training a separate NQS from scratch at every point of the phase diagr…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. Research 6, 043280] Published Mon Dec 16, 2024


---
# Hamiltonian learning in quantum field theories

## 量子场论中的哈密顿学习

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevResearch.6.043284

**Authors:** Robert Ott, Torsten V. Zache, Maximilian Prüfer, Sebastian Erne, Mohammadamin Tajik, Hannes Pichler, Jörg Schmiedmayer, and Peter Zoller

Author(s): Robert Ott, Torsten V. Zache, Maximilian Prüfer, Sebastian Erne, Mohammadamin Tajik, Hannes Pichler, Jörg Schmiedmayer, and Peter Zoller<br /><p>Quantum field theories (QFTs) as relevant for condensed-matter or high-energy physics are formulated in continuous space and time, and typically emerge as effective low-energy descriptions. In atomic physics, an example is given by tunnel-coupled superfluids, which realize the paradigmatic sine-Gord…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. Research 6, 043284] Published Mon Dec 16, 2024


---
# Learning continuous scattering length density profiles from neutron reflectivities using convolutional neural networks *

## 使用卷积神经网络从中子反射率学习连续散射长度密度分布 *

Link: http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2632-2153/ad9809

**Authors:** Brian Qu, Panagiotis Christakopoulos, Hanyu Wang, Jong Keum, Polyxeni P Angelopoulou, Peter V Bonnesen, Kunlun Hong, Mathieu Doucet, James F Browning, Miguel Fuentes-Cabrera and Rajeev Kumar

Interpreting neutron reflectivity (NR) data using ad hoc multi-layer models and physics-based models provides information about spatially resolved neutron scattering length density (NSLD) profiles. Recent improvements in data acquisition systems have allowed acquiring thousands of NR curves in a couple of hours, which has led to a need for automated data analysis tools to interpret NR measurements in real-time. Here, we present a machine learning analysis workflow that uses a series of models, based on a convolutional neural network (CNN), to learn the relation between the NSLDs and the NRs, and subsequently produce continuous NSLD profiles directly from NRs. The usefulness of our CNN-based models is demonstrated by constructing NSLDs from NRs of several films containing homopolymer polyzwitterions and diblock copolymers mixed with different types of salts. Comparisons of the NSLDs with those constructed using ad hoc multi-layer models reveal a very good agreement, suggesting the potential of CNN-based models for real-time automated data analysis of NRs.


---
# Predicting Mechanical and Thermal Properties of High‐Entropy Ceramics via Transferable Machine‐Learning‐Potential‐Based Molecular Dynamics

## 通过可转移的基于机器学习电位的分子动力学预测高熵陶瓷的机械和热性能

Link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202418802?af=R

**Authors:** Yiwen Liu, 
Hong Meng, 
Zijie Zhu, 
Hulei Yu, 
Lei Zhuang, 
Yanhui Chu

Advanced Functional Materials, EarlyView.


---
# Predicting Organic-Inorganic Halide Perovskite Photovoltaic Performance from Optical Properties of Constituent Films through Machine Learning

## 通过机器学习从组成膜的光学性质预测有机-无机卤化物钙钛矿光伏性能

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09638

**Authors:** Ruiqi Zhang, Brandon Motes, Shaun Tan, Yongli Lu, Meng-Chen Shih, Yilun Hao, Karen Yang, Shreyas Srinivasan, Moungi G. Bawendi, Vladimir Bulovic

arXiv:2412.09638v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We demonstrate a machine learning (ML) approach that accurately predicts the current-voltage behavior of 3D/2D-structured (FAMA)Pb(IBr)3/OABr hybrid organic-inorganic halide perovskite (HOIP) solar cells under AM1.5 illumination. Our neural network algorithm is trained on measured responses from several hundred HOIP solar cells, using three simple optical measurements of constituent HOIP films as input: optical transmission spectrum, spectrally-resolved photoluminescence, and time-resolved photoluminescence, from which we predict the open-circuit voltage (Voc), short-circuit current (Jsc), and fill factors (FF) values of solar cells that contain the HOIP active layers. Determined average prediction accuracies for 95 % of the predicted Voc, Jsc, and FF values are 91%, 94% and 89%, respectively, with R2 coefficients of determination of 0.47, 0.77, and 0.58, respectively. Quantifying the connection between ML predictions and physical parameters extracted from the measured HOIP films optical properties, allows us to identify the most significant parameters influencing the prediction results. With separate ML-classifying algorithms, we identify degraded solar cells using the same optical input data, achieving over 90% classification accuracy through support vector machine, cross entropy loss, and artificial neural network algorithms. To our knowledge, the demonstrated regression and classification work is the first to use ML to predict device photovoltaic properties solely from the optical properties of constituent materials.


---
# Neural Vector Tomography for Reconstructing a Magnetization Vector Field

## 用于重建磁化矢量场的神经矢量层析成像

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09927

**Authors:** Giorgi Butbaia, Jiadong Zang

arXiv:2412.09927v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Discretized techniques for vector tomographic reconstructions are prone to producing artifacts in the reconstructions. The quality of these reconstructions may further deteriorate as the amount of noise increases. In this work, we instead model the underlying vector fields using smooth neural fields. Owing to the fact that the activation functions in the neural network may be chosen to be smooth and the domain is no longer pixelated, the model results in high-quality reconstructions, even under presence of noise. In the case where we have underlying global continuous symmetry, we find that the neural network substantially improves the accuracy of the reconstruction over the existing techniques.


---
# Unsupervised classification of disordered phases in an oppositely charged colloidal system

## 带相反电荷的胶体系统中无序相的无监督分类

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09949

**Authors:** Yoshitaka Miyahara, Taiki Haga

arXiv:2412.09949v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We develop an unsupervised machine learning approach to classify disordered phases in a system of oppositely charged colloids. In this system, the interplay between Coulomb and van der Waals interactions leads to transitions in local structures, while the global structure remains disordered. Our method involves representing the local structures of the system as high-dimensional vectors and applying principal component analysis to identify distinct features of each phase. We demonstrate that our method results in a reasonable classification of disordered phases, which is consistent with that obtained from radial distribution functions. The interpretability of the method reveals the key characteristics of each phase and provides valuable insights into the mechanisms underlying the unconventional phase transitions.


---
# Programmable polyaniline nano neural network. A simple physical model

## 可编程聚苯胺纳米神经网络。一个简单的物理模型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09999

**Authors:** Jerzy J. Langer

arXiv:2412.09999v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Here we report a working physical model of a programmable neural nanonetwork based on a nanostructured conductive polymer - polyaniline. The device can be programmed owing to controlled growth of nanowires, a method developed in our laboratory. The response (output signal) of the network depends on the activated input line, but also on the amplitude of the input signals. The system is able to analyze multiple input signals in parallel and in real time. This is still considered as a challenge.


---
# Glassy dynamics near the learnability transition in deep recurrent networks

## 深度循环网络中可学习性转变附近的玻璃动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10094

**Authors:** John Hertz, Joanna Tyrcha

arXiv:2412.10094v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We examine learning dynamics in deep recurrent networks, focusing on the behavior near the learnability transition. The training data are Bach chorales in 4-part harmony, and the learning is by stochastic gradient descent. The negative log-likelihood exhibits power-law decay at long learning times, with a power that depends on depth (the number of layers) d and width (the number of hidden units per of layer) w. When the network is underparametrized (too small to learn the data), the power law approach is to a positive asymptotic value. We find that, for a given depth, the learning time appears to diverge proportional to 1/(w - w_c) as w approaches a critical value w_c from above. w_c is a decreasing function of the number of layers and the number of hidden units per layer. We also study aging dynamics (the slowing-down of fluctuations as the time since the beginning of learning grows). We consider a system that has been learning for a time tau_w and measure the fluctuations of the weight values in a time interval of length tau after tau_w. In the underparametrized phase, we find that they are well-described by a single function of tau/tau_w, independent of tau_w, consistent with the weak ergodicity breaking seen frequently in glassy systems. This scaling persists for short times in the overparametrized phase but breaks down at long times.


---
# Learning Radical Excited States from Sparse Data

## 从稀疏数据中学习自由基激发态

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10149

**Authors:** Jingkun Shen, Lucy Walker, Kevin Ma, James D. Green, Hugo Bronstein, Keith T. Butler, Timothy J. H. Hele

arXiv:2412.10149v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Emissive organic radicals are currently of great interest for their potential use in the next generation of highly efficient organic light emitting diode (OLED) devices and as molecular qubits. However, simulating their optoelectronic properties is challenging, largely due to spin-contamination and the multireference character of their excited states. Here we present a data-driven approach where, for the first time, the excited electronic states of organic radicals are learned directly from experimental excited state data, using a much smaller amount of data than required by typical Machine Learning. We adopt ExROPPP, a fast and spin-pure semiempirical method for calculation of excited states of radicals, as a surrogate physical model for which we learn the optimal set of parameters. We train the model on 81 previously published radicals and find that the trained model is a huge improvement over ExROPPP with literature parameters, giving RMS and mean absolute errors of 0.24 and 0.16 eV respectively with R$^2$ and SRCC of 0.86 and 0.88 respectively. We synthesise four new radicals and validate the model on their spectra, finding even lower errors and similar correlation as for the testing set. This model paves the way for high throughput discovery of next-generation radical based optoelectronics.


---
# Predicting Many Crystal Properties via an Adaptive Transformer-based Framework

## 通过基于自适应变压器的框架预测许多晶体特性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.18944

**Authors:** Haosheng Xu, Dongheng Qian, Jing Wang

arXiv:2405.18944v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Machine learning has revolutionized many fields, including materials science. However, predicting properties of crystalline materials using machine learning faces challenges in input encoding, output versatility, and interpretability. We introduce CrystalBERT, an adaptable transformer-based framework integrating space group, elemental, and unit cell information. This novel structure can seamlessly combine diverse features and accurately predict various physical properties, including topological properties, superconducting transition temperatures, dielectric constants, and more. CrystalBERT provides insightful interpretations of features influencing target properties. Our results indicate that space group and elemental information are crucial for predicting topological and superconducting properties, underscoring their intricate nature. By incorporating these features, we achieve 91\% accuracy in topological classification, surpassing prior studies and identifying previously misclassified materials. This research demonstrates that integrating diverse material information enhances the prediction of complex material properties, paving the way for more accurate and interpretable machine learning models in materials science.


---
# Exploring lattice thermal conductivity models via interpretable deep learning to accelerate the discovery of novel materials

## 通过可解释的深度学习探索晶格热导率模型，以加速新材料的发现

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.05948

**Authors:** Yuxuan Zeng, Wei Cao, Yijing Zuo, Tan Peng, Yue Hou, Ling Miao, Ziyu Wang, Jing Shi

arXiv:2412.05948v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Lattice thermal conductivity, being integral to thermal transport properties, is indispensable to advancements in areas such as thermoelectric materials and thermal management. Traditional methods, such as Density Functional Theory and Molecular Dynamics, require significant computational resources, posing challenges to the high-throughput prediction of lattice thermal conductivity. Although AI-driven material science has achieved fruitful progress, the trade-off between accuracy and interpretability in machine learning continues to hinder further advancements. This study utilizes interpretable deep learning techniques to construct a rapid prediction framework that enables both qualitative assessments and quantitative predictions, accurately forecasting the thermal transport properties of three novel materials. Furthermore, interpretable deep learning offers analytically grounded physical models while integrating with sensitivity analysis to uncover deeper theoretical insights.


---
# How quickly can sodium-ion learn? Assessing scenarios for techno-economic competitiveness against lithium-ion batteries

## 钠离子的学习速度有多快？评估针对锂离子电池的技术经济竞争力的情景

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.13759

**Authors:** Adrian Yao, Sally M. Benson, William C. Chueh

arXiv:2403.13759v4 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Sodium-ion batteries have garnered significant attention as a potentially low-cost alternative to lithium-ion batteries, which have experienced supply shortages and pricing volatility of key minerals. Here we assess their techno-economic competitiveness against incumbent lithium-ion batteries using a modeling framework incorporating componential learning curves constrained by minerals prices and engineering design floors. We compare projected sodium-ion and lithium-ion price trends across over 6,000 scenarios while varying Na-ion technology development roadmaps, supply chain scenarios, market penetration, and learning rates. Assuming substantial progress can be made along technology roadmaps via targeted R&amp;D, we identify many sodium-ion pathways that might reach cost-competitiveness with low-cost lithium-ion variants in the early 2030s. Additionally, we show timelines are highly sensitive to movements in critical minerals supply chains -- namely that of lithium, graphite, and nickel. Modeled outcomes suggest increasing sodium-ion energy densities to decrease materials intensity to be among the most impactful ways to improve competitiveness.


---
# Critical temperature of the classical XY model via autoencoder latent space sampling

## 通过自动编码器潜在空间采样的经典XY模型的临界温度

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.13296

**Authors:** Brandon Willnecker, Mervlyn Moodley

arXiv:2406.13296v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: The classical XY model has been consistently studied since it was introduced more than six decades ago. Of particular interest has been the two-dimensional spin model's exhibition of the Berezinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless (BKT) transition. This topological phenomenon describes the transition from bound vortex-antivortex pairs at low temperatures to unpaired or isolated vortices and anti-vortices above some critical temperature. In this work we propose a novel machine learning based method to determine the emergence of this phase transition. An autoencoder was used to map states of the XY model into a lower dimensional latent space. Samples were taken from this latent space to determine the thermal average of the vortex density which was then used to determine the critical temperature of the phase transition.


---
# Reviving holographic photonic integration

## 恢复全息光子集成

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09931

**Authors:** Daniel Brunner

arXiv:2412.09931v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Photonic integration of thick holograms in waveguiding structures could be considered the chimera of photonics; multi-faceted and hard to tame. It is the fundamental, and hence indispensable, concept behind compact and monolithically integrated linear optical transformation1. The true relevance of this becomes apparent in the high-dimensional context of unconventional optical computing, that is, in optical neural networks. Yet, integrating such holographic connections is very challenging. It demands high fabrication accuracy, and numerical design of the circuit is often non-tractable for large architectures. Both challenges are intrinsically linked to the usually large refractive index differences between sections of such holographic optical waveguides when using standard techniques of silicon photonics.


---
# Learning Radical Excited States from Sparse Data

## 从稀疏数据中学习自由基激发态

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10149

**Authors:** Jingkun Shen, Lucy Walker, Kevin Ma, James D. Green, Hugo Bronstein, Keith T. Butler, Timothy J. H. Hele

arXiv:2412.10149v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Emissive organic radicals are currently of great interest for their potential use in the next generation of highly efficient organic light emitting diode (OLED) devices and as molecular qubits. However, simulating their optoelectronic properties is challenging, largely due to spin-contamination and the multireference character of their excited states. Here we present a data-driven approach where, for the first time, the excited electronic states of organic radicals are learned directly from experimental excited state data, using a much smaller amount of data than required by typical Machine Learning. We adopt ExROPPP, a fast and spin-pure semiempirical method for calculation of excited states of radicals, as a surrogate physical model for which we learn the optimal set of parameters. We train the model on 81 previously published radicals and find that the trained model is a huge improvement over ExROPPP with literature parameters, giving RMS and mean absolute errors of 0.24 and 0.16 eV respectively with R$^2$ and SRCC of 0.86 and 0.88 respectively. We synthesise four new radicals and validate the model on their spectra, finding even lower errors and similar correlation as for the testing set. This model paves the way for high throughput discovery of next-generation radical based optoelectronics.


---
# Physics Instrument Design with Reinforcement Learning

## 基于强化学习的物理仪器设计

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10237

**Authors:** Shah Rukh Qasim, Patrick Owen, Nicola Serra

arXiv:2412.10237v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We present a case for the use of Reinforcement Learning (RL) for the design of physics instrument as an alternative to gradient-based instrument-optimization methods. It's applicability is demonstrated using two empirical studies. One is longitudinal segmentation of calorimeters and the second is both transverse segmentation as well longitudinal placement of trackers in a spectrometer. Based on these experiments, we propose an alternative approach that offers unique advantages over differentiable programming and surrogate-based differentiable design optimization methods. First, Reinforcement Learning (RL) algorithms possess inherent exploratory capabilities, which help mitigate the risk of convergence to local optima. Second, this approach eliminates the necessity of constraining the design to a predefined detector model with fixed parameters. Instead, it allows for the flexible placement of a variable number of detector components and facilitates discrete decision-making. We then discuss the road map of how this idea can be extended into designing very complex instruments. The presented study sets the stage for a novel framework in physics instrument design, offering a scalable and efficient framework that can be pivotal for future projects such as the Future Circular Collider (FCC), where most optimized detectors are essential for exploring physics at unprecedented energy scales.


---
# Predicting Organic-Inorganic Halide Perovskite Photovoltaic Performance from Optical Properties of Constituent Films through Machine Learning

## 通过机器学习从组成膜的光学性质预测有机-无机卤化物钙钛矿光伏性能

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09638

**Authors:** Ruiqi Zhang, Brandon Motes, Shaun Tan, Yongli Lu, Meng-Chen Shih, Yilun Hao, Karen Yang, Shreyas Srinivasan, Moungi G. Bawendi, Vladimir Bulovic

arXiv:2412.09638v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We demonstrate a machine learning (ML) approach that accurately predicts the current-voltage behavior of 3D/2D-structured (FAMA)Pb(IBr)3/OABr hybrid organic-inorganic halide perovskite (HOIP) solar cells under AM1.5 illumination. Our neural network algorithm is trained on measured responses from several hundred HOIP solar cells, using three simple optical measurements of constituent HOIP films as input: optical transmission spectrum, spectrally-resolved photoluminescence, and time-resolved photoluminescence, from which we predict the open-circuit voltage (Voc), short-circuit current (Jsc), and fill factors (FF) values of solar cells that contain the HOIP active layers. Determined average prediction accuracies for 95 % of the predicted Voc, Jsc, and FF values are 91%, 94% and 89%, respectively, with R2 coefficients of determination of 0.47, 0.77, and 0.58, respectively. Quantifying the connection between ML predictions and physical parameters extracted from the measured HOIP films optical properties, allows us to identify the most significant parameters influencing the prediction results. With separate ML-classifying algorithms, we identify degraded solar cells using the same optical input data, achieving over 90% classification accuracy through support vector machine, cross entropy loss, and artificial neural network algorithms. To our knowledge, the demonstrated regression and classification work is the first to use ML to predict device photovoltaic properties solely from the optical properties of constituent materials.


---
# How quickly can sodium-ion learn? Assessing scenarios for techno-economic competitiveness against lithium-ion batteries

## 钠离子的学习速度有多快？评估针对锂离子电池的技术经济竞争力的情景

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.13759

**Authors:** Adrian Yao, Sally M. Benson, William C. Chueh

arXiv:2403.13759v4 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Sodium-ion batteries have garnered significant attention as a potentially low-cost alternative to lithium-ion batteries, which have experienced supply shortages and pricing volatility of key minerals. Here we assess their techno-economic competitiveness against incumbent lithium-ion batteries using a modeling framework incorporating componential learning curves constrained by minerals prices and engineering design floors. We compare projected sodium-ion and lithium-ion price trends across over 6,000 scenarios while varying Na-ion technology development roadmaps, supply chain scenarios, market penetration, and learning rates. Assuming substantial progress can be made along technology roadmaps via targeted R&amp;D, we identify many sodium-ion pathways that might reach cost-competitiveness with low-cost lithium-ion variants in the early 2030s. Additionally, we show timelines are highly sensitive to movements in critical minerals supply chains -- namely that of lithium, graphite, and nickel. Modeled outcomes suggest increasing sodium-ion energy densities to decrease materials intensity to be among the most impactful ways to improve competitiveness.


---
# Unveiling the optimization process of Physics Informed Neural Networks: How accurate and competitive can PINNs be?

## 揭开物理通知神经网络的优化过程: pinn的准确性和竞争力如何？

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.04230

**Authors:** Jorge F. Urb\'an, Petros Stefanou, Jos\'e A. Pons

arXiv:2405.04230v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: This study investigates the potential accuracy boundaries of physics-informed neural networks, contrasting their approach with previous similar works and traditional numerical methods. We find that selecting improved optimization algorithms significantly enhances the accuracy of the results. Simple modifications to the loss function may also improve precision, offering an additional avenue for enhancement. Despite optimization algorithms having a greater impact on convergence than adjustments to the loss function, practical considerations often favor tweaking the latter due to ease of implementation. On a global scale, the integration of an enhanced optimizer and a marginally adjusted loss function enables a reduction in the loss function by several orders of magnitude across diverse physical problems. Consequently, our results obtained using compact networks (typically comprising 2 or 3 layers of 20-30 neurons) achieve accuracies comparable to finite difference schemes employing thousands of grid points. This study encourages the continued advancement of PINNs and associated optimization techniques for broader applications across various fields.


---
# Critical temperature of the classical XY model via autoencoder latent space sampling

## 通过自动编码器潜在空间采样的经典XY模型的临界温度

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.13296

**Authors:** Brandon Willnecker, Mervlyn Moodley

arXiv:2406.13296v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: The classical XY model has been consistently studied since it was introduced more than six decades ago. Of particular interest has been the two-dimensional spin model's exhibition of the Berezinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless (BKT) transition. This topological phenomenon describes the transition from bound vortex-antivortex pairs at low temperatures to unpaired or isolated vortices and anti-vortices above some critical temperature. In this work we propose a novel machine learning based method to determine the emergence of this phase transition. An autoencoder was used to map states of the XY model into a lower dimensional latent space. Samples were taken from this latent space to determine the thermal average of the vortex density which was then used to determine the critical temperature of the phase transition.


---
# $\nabla^2$DFT: A Universal Quantum Chemistry Dataset of Drug-Like Molecules and a Benchmark for Neural Network Potentials

## $ \ nabla ^ 2 $ DFT: 类药物分子的通用量子化学数据集和神经网络潜力的基准

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.14347

**Authors:** Kuzma Khrabrov, Anton Ber, Artem Tsypin, Konstantin Ushenin, Egor Rumiantsev, Alexander Telepov, Dmitry Protasov, Ilya Shenbin, Anton Alekseev, Mikhail Shirokikh, Sergey Nikolenko, Elena Tutubalina, Artur Kadurin

arXiv:2406.14347v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Methods of computational quantum chemistry provide accurate approximations of molecular properties crucial for computer-aided drug discovery and other areas of chemical science. However, high computational complexity limits the scalability of their applications. Neural network potentials (NNPs) are a promising alternative to quantum chemistry methods, but they require large and diverse datasets for training. This work presents a new dataset and benchmark called $\nabla^2$DFT that is based on the nablaDFT. It contains twice as much molecular structures, three times more conformations, new data types and tasks, and state-of-the-art models. The dataset includes energies, forces, 17 molecular properties, Hamiltonian and overlap matrices, and a wavefunction object. All calculations were performed at the DFT level ($\omega$B97X-D/def2-SVP) for each conformation. Moreover, $\nabla^2$DFT is the first dataset that contains relaxation trajectories for a substantial number of drug-like molecules. We also introduce a novel benchmark for evaluating NNPs in molecular property prediction, Hamiltonian prediction, and conformational optimization tasks. Finally, we propose an extendable framework for training NNPs and implement 10 models within it.


---
# Graph Neural Network-Based Track Finding in the LHCb Vertex Detector

## LHCb顶点检测器中基于图神经网络的航迹查找

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.12119

**Authors:** Anthony Correia, Fotis I. Giasemis, Nabil Garroum, Vladimir Vava Gligorov, Bertrand Granado

arXiv:2407.12119v5 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: The next decade will see an order of magnitude increase in data collected by high-energy physics experiments, driven by the High-Luminosity LHC (HL-LHC). The reconstruction of charged particle trajectories (tracks) has always been a critical part of offline data processing pipelines. The complexity of HL-LHC data will however increasingly mandate track finding in all stages of an experiment's real-time processing. This paper presents a GNN-based track-finding pipeline tailored for the Run 3 LHCb experiment's vertex detector and benchmarks its physics performance and computational cost against existing classical algorithms on GPU architectures. A novelty of our work compared to existing GNN tracking pipelines is batched execution, in which the GPU evaluates the pipeline on hundreds of events in parallel. We evaluate the impact of neural-network quantisation on physics and computational performance, and comment on the outlook for GNN tracking algorithms for other parts of the LHCb track-finding pipeline.


---
# Exploring lattice thermal conductivity models via interpretable deep learning to accelerate the discovery of novel materials

## 通过可解释的深度学习探索晶格热导率模型，以加速新材料的发现

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.05948

**Authors:** Yuxuan Zeng, Wei Cao, Yijing Zuo, Tan Peng, Yue Hou, Ling Miao, Ziyu Wang, Jing Shi

arXiv:2412.05948v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Lattice thermal conductivity, being integral to thermal transport properties, is indispensable to advancements in areas such as thermoelectric materials and thermal management. Traditional methods, such as Density Functional Theory and Molecular Dynamics, require significant computational resources, posing challenges to the high-throughput prediction of lattice thermal conductivity. Although AI-driven material science has achieved fruitful progress, the trade-off between accuracy and interpretability in machine learning continues to hinder further advancements. This study utilizes interpretable deep learning techniques to construct a rapid prediction framework that enables both qualitative assessments and quantitative predictions, accurately forecasting the thermal transport properties of three novel materials. Furthermore, interpretable deep learning offers analytically grounded physical models while integrating with sensitivity analysis to uncover deeper theoretical insights.


---
# Predicting and Explaining Yields with Machine Learning for Carboxylated Azoles and Beyond

## 用机器学习预测和解释羧基化唑及以上的产量

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-btcx0?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Kerrin, Janssen

Carbon dioxide can be transformed into valuable chemical building blocks, including C2-carboxylated 1,3-azoles, which have potential applications in pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, and pesticides. However, only a small fraction of the millions of available 1,3-azoles are carboxylated at the C2 position, highlighting significant opportunities for further research in the synthesis and application of these compounds. In this study, we utilized a supervised machine learning approach to predict reaction yields for a dataset of amide-coupled C2-carboxylated 1,3-azoles. To facilitate molecular design, we integrated an interpretable heat-mapping algorithm named PIXIE (Predictive Insights and Xplainability for Informed chemical space Exploration).  PIXIE visualizes the influence of molecular substructures on predicted yields by leveraging fingerprint bit importances, providing synthetic chemists with a powerful tool for the rational design of molecules. While heat mapping is an established technique, its integration with a machine-learning model tailored to the chemical space of C2-carboxylated 1,3-azoles represents a significant advancement. This approach not only enables targeted exploration of this underrepresented chemical space, fostering the discovery of new bioactive compounds, but also demonstrates the potential of combining these methods for broader applications in other chemical domains.


---
# P2MAT: A machine learning (ML) driven software for Property Prediction of MATerial

## P2MAT: 一种机器学习 (ML) 驱动的材料性能预测软件

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-0jfmb?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Kunal, Poorey

Accurate prediction of melting points for pure molecules remains a significant challenge in predictive chemistry, with implications across various scientific fields, including materials science, drug discovery, and separations chemistry. Traditional methods, such as group contribution (GC) techniques, have shown limited success due to the complex relationship between molecular structure and melting point. In this study, we present a data-driven machine learning (ML) approach to predict the melting points of organic compounds, leveraging both 2D and 3D molecular descriptors. Our dataset comprises 19,811 compounds with 2D features and a subset of 4,568 compounds with additional 3D features. We employed feature selection methods, including pair-wise correlation, Boruta, and principal component analysis, to refine our feature set. Various ML models, including linear regression, ensemble-based regression (Random Forest, gradient- boosted regression, Extreme gradient-boosted regression), support vector regression, and deep learning, were evaluated for their predictive performance. The Extreme Gradient Boosted Regression (XGBR) model demonstrated superior performance with a mean absolute error (MAE) of 27.64 K for 2D features and 31.58 K for combined 2D and 3D features. Outlier detection and removal further improved model accuracy. Additionally, SHAP (SHapley Additive exPlanations) analysis provided insights into feature importance, enhancing model interpretability. Our results indicate that ML models, particularly XGBR, can significantly improve melting point predictions, offering a robust tool for the scientific community. 
Scientific Contribution: The P2MAT application capable to predict both melting point and boiling point from SMILEs string as inputs. The GUI is simple and easy to load in the system.


---
# A Data-Science Approach to Experimental Catalyst Discovery: Integrating Exploration, Exploitation, and Serendipity

## 实验催化剂发现的数据科学方法: 集成探索，开发和偶然发现

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-5hzqf?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Toshiaki, Taniike

Predicting the performance of heterogeneous catalysts is difficult because it involves complex interactions and unknown elementary reactions; hence, traditional catalyst development relies on trial and error. Machine learning offers a structured approach to address these issues. However, this approach is limited by challenges such as descriptor design, sparse data, and context-dependent interactions. In this study, two machine learning systems were developed to address these challenges in catalyst discovery: a recommender system that balances exploration and exploitation, and a "serendipiter" that detects unexpected discoveries. These systems were tested on the oxidative coupling of methane, and the results demonstrated a promising improvement in the efficiency of catalyst discovery. The recommender, based on evidence theory, uses binary combinations of catalyst components as descriptors to predict performance. It handles incomplete data by quantifying contradictions and uncertainty, facilitating a balance between exploration (testing unevidenced catalysts) and exploitation (refining known high-performing ones). The recommender efficiently identified a diverse range of high-performing catalysts through adaptive sampling with 160 catalysts. The serendipiter, a meta-learner, identifies unexpected high-performing catalysts by leveraging different machine learning models. It increased the occurrence of serendipitous discoveries to 50%, compared to 3% with the recommender alone. In summary, these systems improve the efficiency and reproducibility of catalyst discovery by balancing exploitation, exploration, and serendipity.


---
# PathInHydro, a set of machine learning models to identify unbinding pathways of gas molecules in [NiFe] hydrogenases

## PathInHydro，一组机器学习模型，用于识别 [NiFe] 氢化酶中气体分子的未结合途径

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-6fb7g-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Ariane, Nunes-Alves

Machine learning (ML) is a powerful tool for the automated data analysis of molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. Recent studies showed that ML models can be used to identify protein-ligand unbinding pathways and understand the underlying mechanism. To expedite the examination of MD simulations, we constructed PathInHydro, a set of supervised ML models capable of automatically assigning unbinding pathways for the dissociation of gas molecules from [NiFe] hydrogenases, using the unbinding trajectories of CO and H2 from Desulfovibrio fructosovorans [NiFe] hydrogenase as a training set. [NiFe] hydrogenases are receiving increasing attention in biotechnology due to their high efficiency in the generation of H2, which is considered by many to be the fuel of the future. However, some of these enzymes are sensitive to O2 and CO. Many efforts have been made to rectify this problem and generate air-stable enzymes by introducing mutations that selectively regulate the access of specific gas molecules to the catalytic site. Herein, we showcase the performance of PathInHydro for the identification of unbinding paths in different test sets, including another gas molecule and a different [NiFe] hydrogenase, which demonstrates its feasibility for the trajectory analysis of a diversity of gas molecules along enzymes with mutations and sequence differences. PathInHydro allows the user to skip time-consuming manual analysis and visual inspection, facilitating data analysis for MD simulations of ligand unbinding from [NiFe] hydrogenases. The codes and data sets are available online: https://github.com/FarzinSohraby/PathInHydro.


---
# Deep-Learning-Enhanced Modeling of Electrosprayed Particle Assembly on Non-spherical Droplet Surfaces

## 非球形液滴表面电喷雾颗粒组装的深度学习增强建模

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-wzr9s-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Paul, Chiarot

Monolayer assembly of charged colloidal particles at liquid interfaces opens a new avenue for advancing the additive manufacturing of thin film materials and devices with tailored properties. In this study, we investigated the dynamics of electrosprayed colloidal particles at curved droplet interfaces through a combination of physics-based computational simulations and machine learning. We employed a novel mesh-constrained Brownian dynamics (BD) algorithm coupled with Ansys® electric field simulations to model the transport and assembly of charged particles on a non-spherical droplet surface. We demonstrated that the electrostatic repulsion between particles, electrophoretic forces induced by substrate surface charge, and Brownian motion are the key factors influencing the compactness and ordering of the assembly structure. We further trained a deep neural network surrogate model using the data generated from the BD simulations to predict radial distribution functions (RDF) of particle assembly. By coupling the surrogate model with Bayesian optimization, we identified the optimal particle and substrate charge densities that yield the best match between the simulation and experimental assembly. Using the optimal charge densities, the RDF profile of the simulated assembly accurately matches the experiment with a similarity of 96.4%, and the corresponding average bond order parameter differs by less than 5% from the experimental one. This deep-learning-based approach significantly reduces computational time while maintaining high accuracy in predicting the important features of the assembly structures. The charge densities inferred from the modeling provide critical insights into the surface charge accumulation in the electrospray process.


---
# Decoding phage-host interactions: a machine learning approach to predict strain-specific infections

## 解码噬菌体-宿主相互作用: 预测菌株特异性感染的机器学习方法

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5319053/latest

The use of bacteriophages for biological control of bacterial infections is a promising approach to combat antimicrobial resistant bacteria. Prediction of phage-bacteria interactions is key to identify sensitive bacterial strains to phage therapy. Since these interactions are governed by multiple biological mechanisms, it is not a simple task to predict the outcome of a phage infection, which varies even among strains from the same species. In this study, machine learning-based models capable of predicting the host range of phages from sequencing data were developed. Models were trained using phage-bacteria protein-protein interactions (PPI), predicted from PPI databases, and a host-range dataset obtained from experimental assays with 10 Salmonella enterica and 3 Escherichia coli bacteriophages. The performance of prediction models differed among bacteriophages, ranging from 78&amp;ndash;92% of accuracy in the case of Salmonella and 84&amp;ndash;94% in Escherichia phages. Results demonstrated the effectiveness of using PPI as a feature to design ML models for phage-bacteria phenotype prediction.


---
# Does Gender Matter? A Qualitative Analysis of Teaching Award Nominations of General Surgery Chief Residents By Medical Students

## 性别重要吗？医学生对普外科主任医师教学奖提名的定性分析

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5220408/latest

Purpose Gender disparities have been identified in surgical resident teaching award distribution. Qualitative analysis of resident and faculty teaching award nominations has been performed previously; however, qualitative analysis of students' nominations of residents for teaching awards by gender has not yet been explored.Methods Nominations for resident teaching awards from the past four years at a single institution were grouped by resident gender. Nominations were then analyzed for thematic content via inductive coding methods using MAXQDA software.Results All residents identified as male or female. 40 nominations (13 male, 17 female) were analyzed. The following themes emerged: 1 )Inclusivity 2) Commitment to Teaching 3) Teaching Efficacy 4)Approval of Resident/Role Modeling. Subcategories of major themes were also identified. Many categories were similar for all residents. Notable areas that differed by &amp;gt;&amp;thinsp;5% of coded text included: female residents were more likely to be described as kind or approachable, and were more commonly described as teaching a specific skill. Male residents were more likely to be described as incorporating the med student into the team, and were more commonly mentioned for teaching in the OR.Conclusion This analysis of medical student nominations for resident teaching awards shows areas of thematic difference between male and female surgical residents and provides insight into how learners may assess teaching skills differently by gender. Further study into how this may apply to faculty and impact the learning environment is warranted.


---
# EF-UV: Feature Enhanced fusion of U-Net and VIT Transformer for Brain Tumor MRI Image Segmentation

## Ef-uv: 特征增强的u-net和VIT Transformer融合用于脑肿瘤MRI图像分割

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5329372/latest

Medical image segmentation is important for medical diagnosis, and deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have made significant progress in this area. However, CNNs are deficient as they mainly focus on localized features. In contrast, the Transformer architecture is able to consider the entire input sequence and is therefore more effective in capturing global contextual information of medical images. In this study, we introduce an innovative approach to enhance the detailed information of images by firstly using three methods, namely, Contrast Constrained Adaptive Histogram Equalization (CLAHE), Modified Binary Otsu-Based Histogram Equalization (MBOBHE), and Modified Partitioned Histogram Equalization (MPHE), and then combining U-Net with the VIT Transformer framework for the further processing of MRI brain tumor medical images for further processing. Three methods are proposed in this study, the preprocessing method using CLAHE is called EF-UVit1, the method using MBOBHE is called EF-UVit2, and the method using MPHE is called EF-UVit3. This study achieves particularly outstanding results in the recognized dataset Brats2020, and the results of the evaluation metrics of the three methods proposed in this study are all more than 98%, and the results in the MSD dataset, although slightly inferior to the Brats2020 dataset, still compare favorably with other algorithms.


---
# The application effectiveness of the &ldquo;One Case to the End&rdquo; teaching model based on BOPPPS in Pediatric Nursing: A quasi-experimental study

## 基于BOPPPS的 “一案到底” 教学模式在儿科护理学中的应用效果: 准实验研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5423857/latest

Background/Aim The traditional teacher-centered teaching method of pediatric nursing only focuses on the imparting of knowledge, ignoring the cultivation of students&amp;rsquo; autonomous learning abilities and the establishment of critical thinking skills. Moreover, the humanized care for pediatric patients is merely a formality, which can&amp;rsquo;t make a deep impression. This study aimed to explore the application effectiveness of the &amp;ldquo;One Case to the End&amp;rdquo; teaching model based on BOPPPS in pediatric nursing teaching.  Materials&amp;amp;methods A quasi-experimental research design was conducted in this study. A total of 276 nursing undergraduates from Grades 2020 and 2021 of a medical college were randomly selected, with 138 students in the Grade 2020 serving as the control group and receiving the traditional teaching model, while the students of Grade 2021 served as the experimental group and implemented the &amp;ldquo;One Case to the End&amp;rdquo; teaching model based on BOPPPS. At the end of the semester, the study compared the two groups of students&amp;rsquo; academic performance, the level of nurses&amp;rsquo; professional values and critical thinking abilities. Additionally, it surveyed the experimental group&amp;rsquo;s satisfaction with the curriculum teaching reform. Results The academic performance, the score of nurses&amp;rsquo; professional values and the score of critical thinking abilities of the experimental group were significantly higher than those of the control group (all P&amp;thinsp;&amp;lt;&amp;thinsp;0.01), and the students in the experimental group had a relatively high evaluation of the reform satisfaction with the new teaching model.  Conclusion The &amp;ldquo;One Case to the End&amp;rdquo; teaching model based on BOPPPS can effectively enhance students&amp;rsquo; academic performance, nurses&amp;rsquo; professional values and critical thinking abilities, and improve the teaching quality of pediatric nursing.


---
# Chronic Kidney Disease Early Prediction Using Machine Learning

## 基于机器学习的慢性肾脏病早期预测

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5511824/latest

In the human body, the kidneys, play the important role of filtering wastes and toxic bodies from the blood. Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a condition in which the human kidneys are damaged and unable to filter the blood in a proper way. It is a nontransmissible disease that causes mortality of large numbers worldwide and is very expensive to properly detect and diagnose, therefore, CKD patients often reach its chronic stages, especially in countries with limited resources. Furthermore, CKD is a silent killer due to the lack of physical symptoms at the initial stage, but a steady loss of glomerular filtration rate (GFR) occurs over a period longer than three months. CKD is a fatal disease if left undetected as it leads to renal failure, in the worst cases. However, the early diagnosis of CDK can significantly reduce the mortality rate. Moreover, if CKD is predicted early and correctly, it results in an increased probability of successful treatment and prolongs the patient&amp;rsquo;s life. The advances in ML, in addition to predictive analytics, provide promising results which in turn prove the capability of prediction in CKD and beyond. The utilization of ML methods in nephrology enables the building of ML models to better detect the at-risk patients of CKD especially in primary care settings. The current study carries out a prediction-based method that helps in early detecting of CKD patients at the early stage. In this study, we utilize on of the boosting method, XGBoost to achieve a higher prediction accuracy for CKD. Various preprocessing steps are employed to achieve better prediction performance, along with suitable hyperparameter tuning and feature selection. We assessed the degree of importance of each feature in the dataset leading to CKD. The performance of the model was evaluated with accuracy. It attained 98% accuracy for training and testing sets. The way the research was done leads to the conclusion that recent improvements in machine learning, along with the help of predictive modeling, make for an interesting way to find new solutions that can then be used to test the accuracy of prediction in the field of kidney disease and beyond.


---
# The Effect of Background Colors of Learning Materials on Memory:evidence from Chinese Characters

## 学习材料的背景颜色对记忆的影响: 来自汉字的证据

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5266192/latest

In teaching practice, color is a common and significant stimulus that can influence learners' cognitive load and learning outcomes through the mediating effects of attention and emotion. Given the challenges faced by CSL learners in mastering and memorizing Chinese characters, this study explores the impact of the background color of learning materials&amp;mdash;one aspect of the physical learning environment&amp;mdash;on the memory retention of Chinese characters among CSL learners. The study employs four background colors (white, red, blue, and green) and adopts a combination of E-Prime psychological experimentation, questionnaire surveys, and semi-structured interviews to examine the recall performance of 30 participants with similar working memory capacity and no particular color preference. The participants' ability to recall Chinese characters was assessed through written recall tasks under the four different background colors. The collected data were then analyzed using SPSS 26.0, with the p-values adjusted using the Greenhouse-Geisser method and multiple comparisons corrected using the Bonferroni method. The results indicate that the background color of the learning materials has a significant effect on the memorization of Chinese characters. Specifically, the red background was found to facilitate the completion of focused memory tasks and demonstrated a robust memory enhancement effect. In contrast, the blue background may be more suitable for creative tasks, as it exhibited a certain degree of memory suppression effect in focused memory tests. Moreover, the effects of white and green backgrounds on character recall were similar, falling between the effects observed for red and blue backgrounds. These findings partially validate the revised cognitive load model proposed by Choi et al. (2014) and highlight that color, as an independent factor, plays a crucial role in influencing learning outcomes. This study thus contributes to the theoretical understanding of background color and its implications for enhancing the efficacy of learning materials.


---
# Dental students&rsquo; perspective on the distance education system during COVID-19 pandemic: a cross-sectional study

## COVID-19大流行期间牙科学生对远程教育系统的看法: 一项横断面研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5376940/latest

Background The COVID-19 pandemic has wreaked havoc on education in a variety of settings, particularly medical and dental teaching institutes. During the pandemic, distance learning has become necessary to ensure that education continues.Objective The present study aims to analyze dental students&amp;rsquo; perceptions of the transition of education from traditional to distance learning.Methods This was a cross-sectional study consisting of a 25-statement online questionnaire that was anonymously administered to students studying dentistry at Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, India. The data collected were analyzed statistically via chi-square test.Results  A total of 713 out of 800 undergraduate dental students participated in the survey, resulting in an 89.12% response rate. A total of 73.9% of the students did not feel that it was easier to concentrate in online classes than in offline lectures, and 60.9% of the students felt that they could not learn the theoretical aspects adequately. Almost three-fourths of the students (73.9%) felt that lockdowns and distance education severely affected the quality of their dental education. A total of 86.4% of the students felt that a lack of patient exposure would affect their future dental practice. With respect to learning preferences, the majority of the students preferred a combination of traditional methods and online learning.Conclusion Despite these difficulties, dental students were able to adapt to the new distance learning education system. The COVID-19 pandemic taught not only the use of technology in education but also future learning strategies.


---
# On-site quantitative detection of fentanyl in heroin by machine learning- enabled SERS on superabsorbing metasurfaces

## 通过超吸收超表面的机器学习启用的SERS对海洛因中的芬太尼进行现场定量检测

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5189056/latest

The global surge in opioid misuse, particularly fentanyl, presents a formidable public health challenge, highlighted by increasing drug-related mortalities. Our study introduces a novel approach for on-site quantitative detection of fentanyl in heroin, employing machine learning-enabled surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS) on superabsorbing metasurfaces. The metasurface enables superior light absorption (&amp;gt;&amp;thinsp;90%) across a broad wavelength range (580&amp;ndash;1100 nm). This architecture facilitates significant electromagnetic field enhancement, over 2.19 &amp;times; 107, ensuring high sensitivity, uniformity, and reproducibility. Our method precisely captured SERS signals across a detection range of 1 to 100 &amp;micro;g/mL in fentanyl solutions, fentanyl-heroin mixtures, and fentanyl-spiked saliva, demonstrating its versatility and practical utility. Incorporation of partial least squares regression into our analysis achieved over 93% accuracy in concentration predictions, eliminating the need for pre-data processing or specialized personnel. This marks a key advancement in rapid, accurate fentanyl detection, aiding the fight against the opioid crisis and improving public health safety.


---
# A Data-Driven Approach Using Deep Learning for the Classification of Indian Bird Species Facing Climate Change Challenges: Implications for Biodiversity Conservation

## 使用深度学习的数据驱动方法对面临气候变化挑战的印度鸟类进行分类: 对生物多样性保护的影响

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5323544/latest

Climate change poses a significant threat to global biodiversity, particularly impacting bird populations, which face the risk of extinction due to habitat loss and altered environmental conditions. This research addresses the difficulties of identifying and monitoring bird species in biodiversity-rich countries such as India. We propose an innovative approach that employs deep learning techniques to classify Indian bird species impacted by climate change. The study's primary aim is to create a precise and dependable classification algorithm using the advanced Inception-ResNet-v2 architecture, enhanced through transfer learning methods. To improve model reliability, we introduce a novel data augmentation technique that minimizes similarities between different species while refining fine-grained features. Our validation strategy includes a comprehensive approach with data swapping between training and validation sets, alongside fivefold cross-validation, ensuring strong predictive performance. The proposed methodology is evaluated on a diverse range of datasets, encompassing images of Indian bird species captured in various habitats and under differing environmental conditions. Initial findings reveal impressive classification accuracy, averaging 94%, with a precision of 96% across more than eight species categories. These outcomes highlight the model's potential for widespread application in biodiversity monitoring and conservation efforts. Future directions for this research include expanding the dataset, enhancing augmentation techniques, and investigating real-time monitoring capabilities. Through this work, we aim to make a meaningful contribution to conservation strategies for Indian bird species amidst the challenges of climate change.


---
# Medical Education and Technology: Post-Pandemic Solutions for Emergency Scenarios

## 医学教育和技术: 大流行后紧急情况的解决方案

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5397259/latest

Background This study developed and implemented a teleactivity technology ensuring remote access and real-time interaction between academic and clinical environments in medical education. This solution aimed to minimize the need for physical presence during clinical and educational procedures, while maintaining the quality of teaching, especially in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic.Methods The technology was designed as a modular rack with cameras, microphones, and monitors to capture and transmit live procedures.  The implementation took place at the Ribeir&amp;atilde;o Preto School of Medicine (FMRP-USP) and at the Bauru School of Medicine (FMBRU-USP), involving 66 participants. Data collection was carried out through electronic questionnaires, distributed after the educational activities. Quantitative analysis included ANOVA and Tukey's post-hoc tests, while qualitative analysis was conducted using the IRAMUTEQ software to identify emerging themes.Results The results showed that 96% of the participants considered that the transmission allowed a clear understanding of the procedures, and 93% evaluated the real-time interaction as effective for learning. The qualitative analysis revealed five main themes, such as the quality of the teaching-learning experience and challenges of adapting to remote teaching. The quantitative analysis highlighted the importance of audio quality for the satisfaction of the participants and identified the preference for the use of the Zoom and YouTube platforms.Conclusion The teleactivity technology developed proved to be effective in maintaining the quality of health education during the pandemic and presents itself as a sustainable alternative for medical education in the future. The proposal of a hybrid model, combining remote and face-to-face teaching, shows promise to face future challenges and expand teaching possibilities. Further research is recommended to explore the application of the technology in different areas of health and assess its long-term impact.


---
# Interpretable machine learning models classify minerals via spectroscopy

## 可解释的机器学习模型通过光谱学对矿物进行分类

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5205361/latest

Developing methods to identify mineral species confidently and rapidly from Raman spectral analysis is critical to numerous fields. Traditionally, analysis relies on pattern matching the Raman spectrum of an unknown dataset with a supporting library of well characterized spectral data, which may prove difficult for environmental samples that are poorly crystalline or phase mixtures. Here, we developed interpretable machine learning models that can classify uranium minerals by secondary oxyanion chemistry and other physicochemical properties based solely on Raman spectra. This new ML method produces a mineral profile of physical and chemical properties for an unknown sample and can rapidly classify or identify unknown minerals from Raman data, without the need for an exact pattern match in a spectral library. Training models are validated by 1. Strong correlation of high confidence model regions with published spectroscopic assignments and 2. Correct classification of a mineral not present in training data. Training data are from the Compendium of Uranium Raman and Infrared Experimental Spectra and available crystallographic information files within the open-source Smart Spectral Matching scientific framework. Physically meaningful classifier models can rapidly identify key structural and chemical information about unknown uranium minerals and the overall methodology is broadly applicable for mineral phases.


---
# Influence of Socioeconomic Status on Children's Reading Abilities: The Mediating Role of Home Learning Environment and the Moderating Role of Grade Level

## 社会经济地位对儿童阅读能力的影响: 家庭学习环境的中介作用和年级水平的调节作用

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5404361/latest

Family socioeconomic status (SES) has been shown to be associated with children&amp;rsquo;s academic development. However, how SES influences children&amp;rsquo;s reading ability across grades still warrants investigation. This study recruited 1st - through 6th -grade children (N&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;1,534) and examined the role of Home Learning Environment in the relationship between SES and reading development. The results revealed that the number of books at home and the earliest reading age mediated the impact of SES on children&amp;rsquo;s reading, whereas family teaching activities did not have the expected mediating effect. Grade level moderated the influence of SES and reading age on reading; that is, as grade level increased, earlier reading age and higher family SES contributed more to children&amp;rsquo;s reading performance. These findings illustrate how SES affects children&amp;rsquo;s reading through Home Learning Environment across grades, which offers practical insights for guiding family activities in promoting reading development.


---
# Sensorless Tool Wear Estimation by using the Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools from the currents of motors generating linear motions

## 通过使用人工智能 (AI) 工具从产生线性运动的电机电流进行无传感器工具磨损估计

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5091680/latest

Timely replacement of cutting tools reduces machining costs and prevents the manufacture of defective products. Many researchers have developed Tool Condition Monitoring (TCM) systems to estimate tool wear using reliable, low-cost instrumentation. This paper proposes estimating tool wear by interpreting motor current signals from the programming logic controllers (PLCs) of CNC machines with artificial intelligence (AI) tools.
Experimental data were collected from three cutting tools at four wear states: normal, and with one, two, or three worn cutting edges. Four AI models were used to classify normal and anomalous cases: 1D Convolutional Neural Networks (1D CNN), Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) networks, a hybrid 1D CNN-LSTM architecture, and an LSTM autoencoder. Hyperparameter tuning was performed to optimize each model.
Three approaches were explored to address different production needs:
&middot; Approach A - Supervised Learning: 1D CNN showed the best performance, achieving 90% validation accuracy.
&middot; Approach B - Semi-Supervised Learning: An LSTM autoencoder trained only on &ldquo;normal&rdquo; data achieved 96% validation accuracy but a low F1 score of 0.51, indicating limited anomaly detection capability.
&middot; Approach C - Transfer Learning: Using transfer learning, the 1D CNN model reached 85% validation accuracy and an F1 score of 0.84 when tested on a third tool with a different diameter.


---
# Hazelnut Classification and Weight Estimation

## 榛子分类和重量估算

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5409135/latest

Hazelnut is a nutritious and delicious nut that is consumed fondly. Hazelnuts also stand out with their economic value. Traditional methods have long been used to classify hazelnuts. However, these methods are time consuming, costly and require expertise. Today, using image-based deep learning classifiers to automatically classify hazelnut varieties can provide significant advantages in agricultural activities. It can increase the productivity of agricultural products. The main objective of this study is to classify hazelnut varieties and make weight estimation using artificial neural networks (ANN). In the study, a data set was created by collecting a total of 700 photo samples from five different hazelnut varieties, namely &amp;Ccedil;akıldak, Koca kulak, Palaz, Yağlı and Yomra. Then, a new and novel artificial neural network model was developed. The neural network model achieved 100% success in the classification of hazelnut varieties and 72% success in weight prediction. These results demonstrate the potential of artificial intelligence applications in agriculture. In future studies, it is recommended to test different artificial intelligence algorithms for classification and weight estimation of different agricultural products.


---
# Quantum-Powered Personalized Learning

## 量子驱动的个性化学习

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5449092/latest

This paper explores the transformative potential of quan- tum computing in the realm of personalized learning. Tradi- tional machine learning models and GPU-based approaches have long been utilized to tailor educational experiences to individual student needs. However, these methods face significant challenges in terms of scalability, computational efficiency, and real-time adaptation to the dynamic nature of educational data. This study proposes leveraging quantum computing to address these limitations. We review existing personalized learning systems, classical machine learning methods, and emerging quantum computing applications in education. We then outline a protocol for data collection, privacy preservation using quantum techniques, and prepro- cessing, followed by the development and implementation of quantum algorithms specifically designed for personalized learning. Our findings indicate that quantum algorithms of- fer substantial improvements in efficiency, scalability, and personalization quality compared to classical methods. This paper discusses the implications of integrating quantum com- puting into educational systems, highlighting the potential for enhanced teaching methodologies, curriculum design, and overall student experiences. We conclude by summariz- ing the advantages of quantum computing in education and suggesting future research directions.


---
# A machine learning-based severity stratification tool for High altitude pulmonary edema

## 基于机器学习的高原肺水肿严重程度分层工具

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5317817/latest

This study aimed to identify key predictors for the severity of High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE) to assist clinicians in promptly recognizing severely affected patients in the emergency department, thereby reducing associated mortality rates. Logistic regression, random forest, and decision tree methods were utilized to determine important predictor variables and evaluate model performance. A total of 508 patients diagnosed with HAPE were included in the study, with 53 variables analyzed. Lung rales, sputum coughing, heart rate, and oxygen saturation were identified as the most relevant predictors for the LASSO model. Subsequently, logistic regression, decision tree, and random forest models were trained and evaluated using these factors on a test set. The random forest model showed the highest performance, with an accuracy of 77.94%, precision of 70.27%, recall of 68.22%, and F1 score of 68.96%, outperforming the other models. Further analysis revealed significant differences in predictive capabilities among the models for HAPE patients at varying severity levels. The random forest model demonstrated high predictive accuracy across all severity levels of HAPE, particularly excelling in identifying severely ill patients with an impressive AUC of 0.86. The study assessed the reliability and effectiveness of the HAPE severity scoring model by validating logistic regression and random forest models. This study introduces a valuable screening tool for categorizing the severity of HAPE, aiding healthcare providers in recognizing individuals with severe HAPE, enabling prompt treatment and the formulation of suitable therapeutic approaches.


---
# Application of Generative Adversarial Networks in Geoelectrical Field Data Interpretation

## 生成对抗网络在地电场数据解释中的应用

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5419015/latest

The geoelectrical survey method generates subsurface cross-sections images based on physical properties, but requires solution of an inverse problem with potential ambiguities in model interpretation and substructure uncertainties. The integration of electrical resistivity tomography (ERT) and machine learning computational approaches is adopted in this study to reduce these ambiguities and uncertainties as well as the labour-intensive nature of the standard computational approach. &amp;nbsp;A data set collected from landfill locations in Nigeria is inverted by the conventional geophysical method of interpretation using the RES2DINV software. The inverted data (true resistivity tomography images) along with the source data (apparent resistivity images) are used as training samples to develop predictor models based on the Pix2Pix conditional generative adversarial networks (Pix2Pix-cGAN). Initial results with a small number of training samples reveal about 89% structural similarity between the true resistivity topography obtained by the standard inversion method and those predicted by the Pix2Pix translator. Our novel approach can be applied to the analysis of seismic data from the lithosphere and mantle.


---
# Asymptomatic compensatory overload in haemophilia patients is visualized as &ldquo;vertical&rdquo; and &ldquo;diagonal&rdquo; patterns in deep learning-based surface temperature analysis

## 在基于深度学习的表面温度分析中，血友病患者的无症状代偿性超负荷被可视化为 “垂直” 和 “对角” 模式

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5236080/latest

Background: Haemophilia is a bleeding disorder caused by deficiencies in factor VIII or IX, leading to bleeding in deep tissues and haemophilic arthropathy (HA). Surgical treatments like synovectomy or joint replacement can alleviate symptoms but often result in severe pain. Secondary injuries may occur in non-affected body parts due to compensatory overloading. This study explores using infrared thermography (IRT) to monitor whole-body surface temperatures in haemophilia patients to detect early signs of overload and prevent further injury by visualizing compensatory load distribution.
Methods: A descriptive cross-sectional study was conducted involving 24 haemophilia participants aged 6-76 years, experiencing pain after active bleeding, after orthopaedic surgery, or with HA. Thermal images were captured using IRT and analysed with deep learning for whole-body mapping and temperature comparison between symmetrical body regions.
Results: Temperature increases indicating overload were observed in body areas ipsilateral (vertical pattern) or contralateral (diagonal pattern) to the painful site. These patterns were detected in 13 of 14 participants with HA, all participants after orthopaedic surgery, and 5 of 6 participants with active bleeding.
Conclusion: The temperature increases, which may reflect the physical load, occurred in areas other than the painful area. When PwH present with pain, the surrounding area, especially in the diagonal and/or vertical position, may be under strain, even if it is asymptomatic, and requires careful observation and treatment. Our findings may be useful not only for supporting the diagnosis of haemorrhage and local inflammation but also for supporting such treatment decisions.


---
# Identification of Core Genes related to exosomes and Screening of Potential Targets in periodontitis Using transcriptome profiling at the single-cell level

## 使用单细胞水平的转录组谱分析鉴定与外泌体相关的核心基因并筛选牙周炎的潜在靶标

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5222065/latest

Background: The progression and severity of periodontitis (PD) are associated with the release of extracellular vesicles by periodontal tissue cells. However, the precise mechanisms through which exosome-related genes (ERGs) influence PD remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate the role and potential mechanisms of key exosome-related genes in PD using transcriptome profiling at the single-cell level.
Methods: The current study cited GSE16134, GSE10334, GSE171213 datasets and 19,643 ERGs. Initially, differential expression analysis, three machine learning (ML) models, gene expression analysis and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis were proceeded to identify core genes. Subsequently, a core gene-based artificial neural network (ANN) model was built to evaluate the predictive power of core genes for PD. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) and immunoinfiltration analysis were conducted based on core genes. To pinpoint key cell types influencing the progression of periodontal at the single-cell level, a series of single-cell analyses covering pseudo-time series analysis were accomplished. The expression verification of core genes was performed through quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR).
Results: CKAP2, IGLL5, MZB1, CXCL6, and AADACL2 served as core genes diagnosing PD. Four core gene were elevated in the PD group in addition to down-regulated AADACL2. The core gene-based-ANN model had AUC values of 0.909 in GSE16134 dataset, which exceeded AUC of each core gene, highlighting the accurately and credibly predictive performance of ANN model. GSEA revealed that ribosome was co-enriched by 5 core genes, manifesting the expression of these genes might be critical for protein structure or function. Immunoinfiltration analysis found that CKAP2, IGLL5, MZB1, and CXCL6 exhibited positive correlations with most discrepant immune cells/discrepant stromal cells, which were highly infiltrated in PD. B cells and T cells holding crucial parts in PD were identified as key cell types. Pseudo-time series analysis revealed that the expression of IGLL5 and MZB1 increased during T cell differentiation, increased and then decreased during B cell differentiation. The qRT-PCR proved the mRNA expression levels of CKAP2 and MZB1 were increased in the blood of PD patients compared to controls. But the mRNA expression levels of AADACL2 was decreased in the PD patients compared to controls. This is consistent with the trend in the amount of expression in the dataset.
Conclusion: CKAP2, IGLL5, MZB1, CXCL6 and AADACL2 were identified as core genes associated with exosomes, helping us to understand the role of these genes in PD.


---
# Interpretable machine learning classifiers implicate GPC6 in Parkinson&rsquo;s disease from single-nuclei midbrain transcriptomes

## 可解释的机器学习分类器从单核中脑转录组中暗示帕金森病中的GPC6

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5471740/latest

Parkinson&amp;rsquo;s disease (PD) is a progressive and devastating neurodegenerative disease. An incomplete understanding of its genetic architecture remains a major barrier to the clinical translation of targeted therapeutics, necessitating novel approaches to uncover elusive genetic determinants. Single-cell and single-nuclear RNA sequencing (scnRNAseq) can help bridge this gap by profiling individual cells for disease-associated differential gene expression and nominating genes for targeted genomic analyses. Here, we introduce a machine learning framework to identify molecular features that characterize post-mortem brain cells from PD patients. We train classifiers to distinguish between PD and healthy cells, then decode the models to unravel the &amp;lsquo;reasons&amp;rsquo; behind the classifications, revealing key genes expression signatures that characterize cells from the parkinsonian brain. Application of this framework to three publicly available snRNAseq datasets characterizing the post-mortem midbrain identified cell-type-specific gene sets that accurately classify PD cells across all datasets, demonstrating our approach's capacity to identify robust molecular markers of disease. Targeted genomic analyses of the key genes characterizing PD cells revealed a previously undescribed association between PD and rare variants in GPC6, a member of the heparan sulfate proteoglycan family, which have been implicated in the intracellular accumulation of &alpha;-synuclein preformed fibrils. We replicate this association in three separate case-control cohorts. Our method promises to enhance understanding of the genetic architecture in complex diseases like PD, representing a critical step toward targeted therapeutics. Our publicly available framework is readily applicable across diseases.


---
# Parental Perceptions of Developmental Care Rounds in a Pediatric Heart Center

## 父母对儿科心脏中心发展护理回合的看法

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5099435/latest

Background Infants requiring surgery for congenital heart disease (CHD) are at an increased risk of neurodevelopmental delay. Developmental Care Rounds (DCR) has been implemented widely to support the neurodevelopment of children with CHD while admitted to the hospital.Objectives This study aims to describe caregiver perceptions of DCR at a quaternary academic children&amp;rsquo;s heart center.Methods Over 17 months, caregivers were asked to evaluate DCR by responding to Likert-scale statements by level of agreement as well as free-form text responses. The Likert scales were analyzed and free-form responses were manually reviewed to identify key themes.Results Forty-nine families participated in the assessment.  One hundred percent of caregivers reported that they &amp;ldquo;Agree&amp;rdquo; or &amp;ldquo;Strongly Agree,&amp;rdquo; to the surveyed questions. These included queries regarding the benefit and utility of DCR. In the qualitative assessment, responses identified themes surrounding feeling more empowered to be active members of the care team, an increased awareness of the importance of regular developmental care during hospitalization, as well as education regarding available resources to promote appropriate developmental care. Some of the specific tools parents reported learning include reading, speaking aloud to children, limiting screen time, and engaging in skin-to-skin contact.Conclusions This is one of the first descriptions of caregiver perceptions of DCR in pediatric patients with CHD. Our results indicate parental satisfaction with DCR with the identification of specific tools to aid in their children's development. DCR may offer an opportunity to improve neurodevelopmental outcomes in hospitalized children with CHD.


---
# An SRAM-based fully-integrated analog closed-loop in-memory computing accelerator

## 基于SRAM的全集成模拟闭环内存计算加速器

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5595805/latest

Conventional processors are unsuited for the increasingly data-intensive workloads brought upon by the resurgence of artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) in the latest years. The widespread diffusion of ML techniques in many different technological fields has prompted both academia and industry to rethink the processor structure, abandoning the outdated physical separation between memory and computing units of von Neumann's architecture. Novel computing paradigms have emerged, such as in-memory computing (IMC), in which memory and computing are blended together in a single processing unit. IMC allows the complete elimination of the energy and latency overheads associated with the back-and-forth data transfer between memory and computing units. When implemented using crossbar arrays (CBAs) of memory devices, IMC represents a competitive candidate for next-generation energy-efficient accelerators for ML and AI on the edge. IMC was shown to be particularly effective in accelerating low-level, data-intensive algebraic operations such as matrix-vector (MVM) and inverse-matrix-vector multiplication (IMVM). However, while several IMC-based MVM demonstrators have been reported in recent years, IMVM demonstrators have faced additional challenges owing to the increased complexity of the circuit implementation, entailing analog feedback operation and suffering from increased sensitivity. Nonetheless, closed-loop IMC (CL-IMC) IMVM may capitalize on the IMC advantage even more than MVM, owing to the higher O(N^3) computational complexity, where N is the matrix size, which is instead reduced to O(1) in IMC-based systems. Here, we present a fully integrated IMC chip for IMVM designed and fabricated in 90~nm complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (CMOS) technology. The chip features two 64&times;64 memory arrays, enclosed in an analog feedback loop by on-chip operational amplifiers (OAs), digital/analog (DAC), and analog/digital converters (ADC), providing the first complete primitive for acceleration of inverse operations under the IMC framework. We validate the integrated circuit (IC) by performing experiments on three real-life toy problems, namely, inversion of large-scale linear systems up to 512$\times$512 by recursive block inversion (RBI), sensor fusion by Kalman filter for trajectory estimation in sounding rockets, and acceleration of inverse kinematics in robotic arms for industrial automation and autonomous robots. Experimental results closely match the accuracy of fully digital systems working at the equivalent IC precision while simultaneously providing consistent advantages in terms of latency, energy, and area consumption. The obtained results represent the first large-scale experimental demonstration of the CL-IMC concept and consolidate its position as a promising candidate for next-generation energy-efficient accelerators on-the-edge.


---
# Machine Learning-Based Analysis of Hardness in Polypropylene/Carbon Nanotube and Low-DensityPolyethylene/Carbon Nanotube Composites

## 基于机器学习的聚丙烯/碳纳米管和低密度聚乙烯/碳纳米管复合材料硬度分析

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5211372/latest

In the present work, the hardness prediction of polypropylene/carbon nanotubes (PP/CNT) and low-density polyethylene/carbon nanotubes (LDPE/CNT) composite materials, processed by microwave technique, has been explored using machine learning models i.e. (Random Forest, Support Vector Regression, K-Nearest Neighbors, Linear Regression, and Neural Network). Four input vectors have been used in the construction of proposed network, such as CNT concentration, power, pressure applied, and exposure time. Hardness prediction is one output that has been evolved from the proposed work. This study presents the prediction of hardness based on machine learning models for both PP/CNT and LDPE/CNT composite materials, and the results show that the Random Forest model consistently performs better than the others models in context with performance metrics like Root Mean Square Error (RMSE), Mean Absolute Error (MAE), and Rate of determination (R2) values. Investigates have been performed on resampling strategies, showing that the jackknife approach enhances model precision and robustness in the case of LDPE/CNT composites. For PP/CNT composite material, it has been noticed that Random Forest gives the highest value of R2 (0.94), whereas Random Forest has the lowest R2 value 0.18 for LDPE/CNT composite material. Random Forest is the most reliable model for predicting the characteristics of PP/CNT composite material due to its ability to handle complex datasets. LDPE/CNT composite material shows superior prediction accuracy with a maximum error of 1.61%, making it a better option for high-precision applications because of improved mechanical interactions and better CNT dispersion.


---
# Harnessing Protein Language Model for Structure-Based Discovery of Highly Efficient and Robust PET Hydrolases

## 利用蛋白质语言模型进行基于结构的高效和强大的PET水解酶发现

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5492523/latest

Plastic waste, particularly polyethylene terephthalate (PET), poses significant environmental challenges, prompting extensive research into enzymatic biodegradation. However, existing PET hydrolases (PETases) are constrained to a narrow sequence space and exhibited limited performance for effective biodegradation. This study introduces a protein discovery pipeline, ProMine, which integrates protein language models (PLMs) with a representation tree to identify PETase based on structural similarity using sequence information. Using the crystal structure of IsPETase as a template, we employed ProMine to search for and cluster target proteins. PETase candidates were further screened using PLM-based assessments of solubility and thermostability, leading to the selection of 34 proteins for biochemical experiments. The results showed that 14 candidates exhibited PET degradation activity across a temperature range of 30-60 ℃. Notably, we identified a PET hydrolase from Kibdelosporangium banguiense (KbPETase), which has a melting temperature 32 ℃ higher than that of IsPETase and exhibits the highest PET degradation activity within 30-60 ℃ compared to other wild-type PETases. KbPETase also shows higher catalytic efficiency than FastPETase. X-ray crystallography and molecular dynamics simulations revealed that KbPETase has a conserved catalytic domain and enhanced intramolecular interactions, contributing to its improved functionality and thermostability. This work demonstrates a novel deep learning approach for discovering natural PETases with enhanced properties.


---
# Harnessing Exploratory Data Analysis for Robust Financial Fraud Detection and Model Enhancement

## 利用探索性数据分析进行可靠的财务欺诈检测和模型增强

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5635767/latest

This paper explores the critical role of Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) in detecting fraud and ensuring robust machine learning model performance. By applying both univariate and multivariate EDA techniques, including graphical and non-graphical methods, key trends and relationships within the dataset were uncovered. The analysis reveals significant variability in financial data associated with fraud cases, particularly highlighting the increased scale of fraud in the early 2000s. The EDA process facilitated the identification of outliers, correlations, and potential data quality issues, such as missing values and inconsistencies. Additionally, EDA informed the necessary data transformations and feature engineering steps that ultimately improved the performance of machine learning models. Using Random Forest and Classification and Regression Trees algorithms, the models demonstrated strong classification accuracy and generalized effectively to new data. The findings underscore the importance of EDA in the data modeling process, particularly in fraud detection, where understanding underlying patterns and relationships is essential for developing reliable predictive models.


---
# Robust Audio-Image Steganography using Cross-Modal Based Transformer Models

## 使用基于跨模态的变压器模型的鲁棒音频图像隐写术

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5463235/latest

This research investigates the use of Vision Transformers (ViT), Audio Spectrogram Transformers (AST), and Cross-Modal Transformers (CMT) in audio-image fusion tasks, aiming to improve the representation learning and interaction between auditory and visual data. The ViT model extracts visual features from image patches resized to 224x224 pixels, while the AST model converts audio signals into mel spectrograms to capture detailed auditory features. The central focus is on the robust CMT model, which integrates visual and auditory features through a cross-modal attention mechanism. Extensive experiments using a diverse audio-image dataset from Kaggle reveal significant improvements. The initial developed ViT model enhances image embedding capacity by 12%, the AST model improves audio embedding tasks by 15%, and the CMT model achieves and overall embedding capacity increased by an average of 58.7%, an image PSNR improved by an average of 57.5%, image MSE reduced by an average of 87.3% as the CMT model shows more consistent performance across all the different stegos. this enhancement in cross-modal retrieval tasks, highlighting the effectiveness of robust CMT model in learning and utilizing inter-modal relationships. The proposed robust cross-modal attention mechanism outperforms traditional ViT model and Least Significant Bits [LSB] concatenation algorithms in feature alignment accuracy. Ablation studies further validate the robustness of this approach, demonstrating the contribution of each component to overall performance. This research establishes the viability and superiority of transformer-based architectures in audio-image fusion tasks, suggesting potential advancements in cross-modal tasks like audio-visual synchronization and multimodal sentiment analysis.

