# Effective many-body interactions in reduced-dimensionality spaces through neural network models

## 通过神经网络模型在降维空间中进行有效的多体相互作用

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevResearch.6.043287

**Authors:** Senwei Liang, Karol Kowalski, Chao Yang, and Nicholas P. Bauman

Author(s): Senwei Liang, Karol Kowalski, Chao Yang, and Nicholas P. Bauman<br /><p>Accurately describing properties of challenging problems in physical sciences often requires complex mathematical models that are unmanageable to tackle head on. Therefore, developing reduced-dimensionality representations that encapsulate complex correlation effects in many-body systems is crucial …</p><br />[Phys. Rev. Research 6, 043287] Published Tue Dec 17, 2024


---
# CHIPS-FF: Evaluating Universal Machine Learning Force Fields for Material Properties

## CHIPS-FF: 评估材料特性的通用机器学习力场

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10516

**Authors:** Daniel Wines, Kamal Choudhary

arXiv:2412.10516v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: In this work, we introduce CHIPS-FF (Computational High-Performance Infrastructure for Predictive Simulation-based Force Fields), a universal, open-source benchmarking platform for machine learning force fields (MLFFs). This platform provides robust evaluation beyond conventional metrics such as energy, focusing on complex properties including elastic constants, phonon spectra, defect formation energies, surface energies, and interfacial and amorphous phase properties. Utilizing 13 graph-based MLFF models including ALIGNN-FF, CHGNet, MatGL, MACE, SevenNet, ORB and OMat24, the CHIPS-FF workflow integrates the Atomic Simulation Environment (ASE) with JARVIS-Tools to facilitate automated high-throughput simulations. Our framework is tested on a set of 104 materials, including metals, semiconductors and insulators representative of those used in semiconductor components, with each MLFF evaluated for convergence, accuracy, and computational cost. Additionally, we evaluate the force-prediction accuracy of these models for close to 2 million atomic structures. By offering a streamlined, flexible benchmarking infrastructure, CHIPS-FF aims to guide the development and deployment of MLFFs for real-world semiconductor applications, bridging the gap between quantum mechanical simulations and large-scale device modeling.


---
# Domain-Pair Intertwined Topological Domain Structure in Elemental Bi Monolayer

## 元素Bi单层中的域对交织的拓扑域结构

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10660

**Authors:** Yunfei Hong, Junkai Deng, Yang Yang, Ri He, Zhicheng Zhong, Xiangdong Ding, Jun Sun, Jefferson Zhe Liu

arXiv:2412.10660v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Ferroelectric domain structures, separated by domain walls, often display unconventional physics and hold significant potential for applications in nano-devices. Most naturally growth domain walls are charge-neutral to avoid increased electrostatic energy, while the intrinsically stable charged 180{\deg} domain walls in Bi monolayer challenged this conventional knowledge and emerged an unexplored field. Here, using machine-learning potential and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, we investigated the finite-temperature dynamics of domain walls and discovered a domain-pair intertwined topological domain structure in Bi monolayer. In 180{\deg} domain walls, a unique polarization switching mechanism is observed, characterized by the out-of-plane shuffle of Bi atoms without bond breaking. This shuffle mechanism reverses the charge properties of Bi atoms, transforming Bi anions into cations and vice versa, ultimately reversing the polarization. Then, we observed a topological multi-domain structure with two groups of domain pairs intertwined. The charged 180{\deg} domain walls form local domain pairs, with the 90{\deg} domain walls emerge between different domain pairs. This multi-domain maintains a stable topological structure within the strain range ({\epsilon}_x = 0 to 4.70%) and exhibits rich domain wall reactions under further applied strain. Our findings provide insights into the charged 180{\deg} domain walls and the related topological domain structures, enabling new opportunities for applications in electronic and nano-electronic devices.


---
# Understanding the role of defects in the lattice transport properties of half-Heusler compounds: a machine learning analysis

## 理解缺陷在半赫斯勒化合物晶格输运性质中的作用: 机器学习分析

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10794

**Authors:** M. Yazdani-Kachoei, B. Rabihavi, I. E. Brumboiu, S. Mehdi Vaez Allaei, I. Di Marco

arXiv:2412.10794v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: While the effect of intrinsic defects on the electronic properties of half-Heusler compounds has been extensively discussed in literature, their effect on the lattice vibrations has received much less attention, due to the prohibitive computational demands. This may lead to an erroneous description of the lattice thermal conductivity, which plays a crucial role in the thermoelectric efficiency, and for which there exists a significant discrepancy between ideal theoretical values and available experimental measurements. In this article, we employ a combination of density-functional theory (DFT) and machine-learning interatomic potentials (MLIPs) to investigate how intrinsic defects affect the phonon spectra and lattice thermal conductivity of TaFeSb, alongside its electronic structure. The calculation of the formation energies of various defects identifies Fe interstitial atoms sitting at the vacant side of the HH crystal structure as the most likely to form, immediately followed by Sb substitution at Ta sites and by other antisite configurations. Phonon calculations illustrate that both defects generate localized phonon modes that significantly lower the lattice thermal conductivity, especially around room temperature. This reduction aligns the calculated values with available measurements, underscoring the critical role of intrinsic defects in reconciling the existing discrepancies between theory and experiment. Our findings also reveal that these defects introduce localized electronic states, effectively reducing the theoretical electronic band gap and bringing it closer to the experimentally observed values. Finally, our analysis demonstrates the efficiency and effectiveness of machine-learning-based approaches to investigate defect-induced properties in complex materials for thermoelectric applications.


---
# Deep Learning Models for Colloidal Nanocrystal Synthesis

## 用于胶体纳米晶体合成的深度学习模型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10838

**Authors:** Kai Gu, Yingping Liang, Jiaming Su, Peihan Sun, Jia Peng, Naihua Miao, Zhimei Sun, Ying Fu, Haizheng Zhong, Jun Zhang

arXiv:2412.10838v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Colloidal synthesis of nanocrystals usually includes complex chemical reactions and multi-step crystallization processes. Despite the great success in the past 30 years, it remains challenging to clarify the correlations between synthetic parameters of chemical reaction and physical properties of nanocrystals. Here, we developed a deep learning-based nanocrystal synthesis model that correlates synthetic parameters with the final size and shape of target nanocrystals, using a dataset of 3500 recipes covering 348 distinct nanocrystal compositions. The size and shape labels were obtained from transmission electron microscope images using a segmentation model trained with a semi-supervised algorithm on a dataset comprising 1.2 million nanocrystals. By applying the reaction intermediate-based data augmentation method and elaborated descriptors, the synthesis model was able to predict nanocrystal's size with a mean absolute error of 1.39 nm, while reaching an 89% average accuracy for shape classification. The synthesis model shows knowledge transfer capabilities across different nanocrystals with inputs of new recipes. With that, the influence of chemicals on the final size of nanocrystals was further evaluated, revealing the importance order of nanocrystal composition, precursor or ligand, and solvent. Overall, the deep learning-based nanocrystal synthesis model offers a powerful tool to expedite the development of high-quality nanocrystals.


---
# AI-Driven Accelerated Discovery of Intercalation-type Cathode Materials for Magnesium Batteries

## AI驱动的镁电池插层型正极材料的加速发现

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11032

**Authors:** Wenjie Chen (Department of Physics, Tsinghua University), Zichang Lin (Department of Physics, Tsinghua University), Xinxin Zhang (Department of Physics, Tsinghua University), Hao Zhou (Institute of AI Industry Research, Tsinghua University), Yuegang Zhang (Department of Physics, Tsinghua University)

arXiv:2412.11032v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Magnesium-ion batteries hold promise as future energy storage solution, yet current Mg cathodes are challenged by low voltage and specific capacity. Herein, we present an AI-driven workflow for discovering high-performance Mg cathode materials. Utilizing the common characteristics of various ionic intercalation-type electrodes, we design and train a Crystal Graph Convolutional Neural Network model that can accurately predicts electrode voltages for various ions with mean absolute errors (MAE) between 0.25 and 0.33 V. By deploying the trained model to stable Mg compounds from Materials Project and GNoME AI dataset, we identify 160 high voltage structures out of 15,308 candidates with voltages above 3.0 V and volumetric capacity over 800 Ah/L. We further train a precise NequIP model to facilitate accurate and rapid simulations of Mg ionic conductivity. From the 160 high voltage structures, the machine learning molecular dynamics simulations have selected 23 cathode materials with both high energy density and high ionic conductivity. This AI-driven workflow dramatically boosts the efficiency and precision of material discovery for multivalent ion batteries, paving the way for advanced Mg battery development.


---
# Disentangling Coherent and Incoherent Effects in Superconductor Photoemission Spectra via Machine Learning

## 通过机器学习解开超导体光发射光谱中的相干和非相干效应

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11129

**Authors:** K. H. Bohachov, A. A. Kordyuk

arXiv:2412.11129v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Disentangling coherent and incoherent effects in the photoemission spectra of strongly correlated materials is generally a challenging problem due to the involvement of numerous parameters. In this study, we employ machine learning techniques, specifically Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs), to address the long-standing issue of the bilayer splitting in superconducting cuprates. We demonstrate the effectiveness of CNN training on modeled spectra and confirm earlier findings that establish the presence of bilayer splitting across the entire doping range. Furthermore, we show that the magnitude of the splitting does not decrease with underdoping, contrary to expectations. This approach not only highlights the potential of machine learning in tackling complex physical problems but also provides a robust framework for advancing the analysis of electronic properties in correlated superconductors.


---
# Superionic Ionic Conductor Discovery via Multiscale Topological Learning

## 通过多尺度拓扑学习发现超离子离子导体

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11398

**Authors:** Dong Chen, Bingxu Wang, Shunning Li, Wentao Zhang, Kai Yang, Yongli Song, Guo-Wei Wei, Feng Pan

arXiv:2412.11398v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Lithium superionic conductors (LSICs) are crucial for next-generation solid-state batteries, offering exceptional ionic conductivity and enhanced safety for renewable energy and electric vehicles. However, their discovery is extremely challenging due to the vast chemical space, limited labeled data, and the understanding of complex structure-function relationships required for optimizing ion transport. This study introduces a multiscale topological learning (MTL) framework, integrating algebraic topology and unsupervised learning to tackle these challenges efficiently. By modeling lithium-only and lithium-free substructures, the framework extracts multiscale topological features and introduces two topological screening metrics-cycle density and minimum connectivity distance-to ensure structural connectivity and ion diffusion compatibility. Promising candidates are clustered via unsupervised algorithms to identify those resembling known superionic conductors. For final refinement, candidates that pass chemical screening undergo ab initio molecular dynamics simulations for validation. This approach led to the discovery of 14 novel LSICs, four of which have been independently validated in recent experiments. This success accelerates the identification of LSICs and demonstrates broad adaptability, offering a scalable tool for addressing complex materials discovery challenges.


---
# Specific Heat Anomalies and Local Symmetry Breaking in (Anti-)Fluorite Materials: A Machine Learning Molecular Dynamics Study

## (反) 萤石材料的比热异常和局部对称性破坏: 机器学习分子动力学研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11518

**Authors:** Keita Kobayashi, Hiroki Nakamura, Masahiko Okumura, Mitsuhiro Itakura, Masahiko Machida

arXiv:2412.11518v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Understanding the high-temperature properties of materials with (anti-)fluorite structures is crucial for their application in nuclear reactors. In this study, we employ machine learning molecular dynamics (MLMD) simulations to investigate the high-temperature thermal properties of thorium dioxide, which has a fluorite structure, and lithium oxide, which has an anti-fluorite structure. Our results show that MLMD simulations effectively reproduce the reported thermal properties of these materials. A central focus of this work is the analysis of specific heat anomalies in these materials at high temperatures, commonly referred to as Bredig, pre-melting, or $\lambda$-transitions. We demonstrate that a local order parameter, analogous to those used to describe liquid-liquid transitions in supercooled water and liquid silica, can effectively characterize these specific heat anomalies. The local order parameter identifies two distinct types of defective structures: lattice defect-like and liquid-like local structures. Above the transition temperature, liquid-like local structures predominate, and the sub-lattice character of mobile atoms disappears.


---
# CrystalFlow: A Flow-Based Generative Model for Crystalline Materials

## CrystalFlow: 一种基于流的晶体材料生成模型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11693

**Authors:** Xiaoshan Luo, Zhenyu Wang, Jian Lv, Lei Wang, Yanchao Wang, Yanming Ma

arXiv:2412.11693v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Deep learning-based generative models have emerged as powerful tools for modeling complex data distributions and generating high-fidelity samples, offering a transformative approach to efficiently explore the configuration space of crystalline materials. In this work, we present CrystalFlow, a flow-based generative model specifically developed for the generation of crystalline materials. CrystalFlow constructs Continuous Normalizing Flows to model lattice parameters, atomic coordinates, and/or atom types, which are trained using Conditional Flow Matching techniques. Through an appropriate choice of data representation and the integration of a graph-based equivariant neural network, the model effectively captures the fundamental symmetries of crystalline materials, which ensures data-efficient learning and enables high-quality sampling. Our experiments demonstrate that CrystalFlow achieves state-of-the-art performance across standard generation benchmarks, and exhibits versatile conditional generation capabilities including producing structures optimized for specific external pressures or desired material properties. These features highlight the model's potential to address realistic crystal structure prediction challenges, offering a robust and efficient framework for advancing data-driven research in condensed matter physics and material science.


---
# Echo State network for coarsening dynamics of charge density waves

## 用于电荷密度波粗化动力学的回波状态网络

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11982

**Authors:** Clement Dinh, Yunhao Fan, Gia-Wei Chern

arXiv:2412.11982v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: An echo state network (ESN) is a type of reservoir computer that uses a recurrent neural network with a sparsely connected hidden layer. Compared with other recurrent neural networks, one great advantage of ESN is the simplicity of its training process. Yet, despite the seemingly restricted learnable parameters, ESN has been shown to successfully capture the spatial-temporal dynamics of complex patterns. Here we build an ESN to model the coarsening dynamics of charge-density waves (CDW) in a semi-classical Holstein model, which exhibits a checkerboard electron density modulation at half-filling stabilized by a commensurate lattice distortion. The inputs to the ESN are local CDW order-parameters in a finite neighborhood centered around a given site, while the output is the predicted CDW order of the center site at the next time step. Special care is taken in the design of couplings between hidden layer and input nodes to ensure lattice symmetries are properly incorporated into the ESN model. Since the model predictions depend only on CDW configurations of a finite domain, the ESN is scalable and transferrable in the sense that a model trained on dataset from a small system can be directly applied to dynamical simulations on larger lattices. Our work opens a new avenue for efficient dynamical modeling of pattern formations in functional electron materials.


---
# Graph Attention Hamiltonian Neural Networks: A Lattice System Analysis Model Based on Structural Learning

## 图注意哈密顿神经网络: 一种基于结构学习的格系统分析模型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10821

**Authors:** Ru Geng, Yixian Gao, Jian Zu, Hong-Kun Zhang

arXiv:2412.10821v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: A deep understanding of the intricate interactions between particles within a system is a key approach to revealing the essential characteristics of the system, whether it is an in-depth analysis of molecular properties in the field of chemistry or the design of new materials for specific performance requirements in materials science. To this end, we propose Graph Attention Hamiltonian Neural Network (GAHN), a neural network method that can understand the underlying structure of lattice Hamiltonian systems solely through the dynamic trajectories of particles. We can determine which particles in the system interact with each other, the proportion of interactions between different particles, and whether the potential energy of interactions between particles exhibits even symmetry or not. The obtained structure helps the neural network model to continue predicting the trajectory of the system and further understand the dynamic properties of the system. In addition to understanding the underlying structure of the system, it can be used for detecting lattice structural abnormalities, such as link defects, abnormal interactions, etc. These insights benefit system optimization, design, and detection of aging or damage. Moreover, this approach can integrate other components to deduce the link structure needed for specific parts, showcasing its scalability and potential. We tested it on a challenging molecular dynamics dataset, and the results proved its ability to accurately infer molecular bond connectivity, highlighting its scientific research potential.


---
# Room temperature exciton-polariton neural network with perovskite crystal

## 钙钛矿晶体的室温激子-极化子神经网络

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10865

**Authors:** Andrzej Opala, Krzysztof Tyszka, Mateusz K\k{e}dziora, Magdalena Furman, Amir Rahmani, Stanis{\l}aw \'Swierczewski, Marek Ekielski, Anna Szerling, Micha{\l} Matuszewski, Barbara Pi\k{e}tka

arXiv:2412.10865v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Limitations of electronics have stimulated the search for novel unconventional computing platforms that enable energy-efficient and ultra-fast information processing. Among various systems, exciton-polaritons stand out as promising candidates for the realization of optical neuromorphic devices. This is due to their unique hybrid light-matter properties, resulting in strong optical nonlinearity and excellent transport capabilities. However, previous implementations of polariton neural networks have been restricted to cryogenic temperatures, limiting their practical applications. In this work, using non-equillibrium Bose-Einstein condensation in a monocrystalline perovskite waveguide, we demonstrate the first room-temperature exciton-polariton neural network. Its performance is verified in various machine learning tasks, including binary classification, and object detection. Our result is a crucial milestone in the development of practical applications of polariton neural networks and provides new perspectives for optical computing accelerators based on perovskites.


---
# Category-Specific Topological Learning of Metal-Organic Frameworks

## 金属有机框架的类别特定拓扑学习

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11386

**Authors:** Dong Chen, Chun-Long Chen, Guo-Wei Wei

arXiv:2412.11386v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) are porous, crystalline materials with high surface area, adjustable porosity, and structural tunability, making them ideal for diverse applications. However, traditional experimental and computational methods have limited scalability and interpretability, hindering effective exploration of MOF structure-property relationships. To address these challenges, we introduce, for the first time, a category-specific topological learning (CSTL), which combines algebraic topology with chemical insights for robust property prediction. The model represents MOF structures as simplicial complexes and incorporates elemental categorizations to enable balanced, interpretable machine learning study. By integrating category-specific persistent homology, CSTL captures both global and local structural characteristics, rendering multi-dimensional, category-specific descriptors that support a predictive model with high accuracy and robustness across eight MOF datasets, outperforming all previous results. This alignment of topological and chemical features enhances the predictive power and interpretability of CSTL, advancing understanding of structure-property relationships of MOFs and promoting efficient material discovery.


---
# Many-body dynamics with explicitly time-dependent neural quantum states

## 具有明确时间依赖的神经量子态的多体动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11830

**Authors:** Anka Van de Walle, Markus Schmitt, Annabelle Bohrdt

arXiv:2412.11830v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Simulating the dynamics of many-body quantum systems is a significant challenge, especially in higher dimensions where entanglement grows rapidly. Neural quantum states (NQS) offer a promising tool for representing quantum wavefunctions, but their application to time evolution faces scaling challenges. We introduce the time-dependent neural quantum state (t-NQS), a novel approach incorporating explicit time dependence into the neural network ansatz. This framework optimizes a single, time-independent set of parameters to solve the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation across an entire time interval. We detail an autoregressive, attention-based transformer architecture and techniques for extending the model's applicability. To benchmark and demonstrate our method, we simulate quench dynamics in the 2D transverse field Ising model and the time-dependent preparation of the 2D antiferromagnetic state in a Heisenberg model, demonstrating state of the art performance, scalability, and extrapolation to unseen intervals. These results establish t-NQS as a powerful framework for exploring quantum dynamics in strongly correlated systems.


---
# Industrial-scale Prediction of Cement Clinker Phases using Machine Learning

## 使用机器学习对水泥熟料相进行工业规模预测

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11981

**Authors:** Sheikh Junaid Fayaz, Nestor Montiel-Bohorquez, Shashank Bishnoi, Matteo Romano, Manuele Gatti, N. M. Anoop Krishnan

arXiv:2412.11981v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Cement production, exceeding 4.1 billion tonnes and contributing 2.4 tonnes of CO2 annually, faces critical challenges in quality control and process optimization. While traditional process models for cement manufacturing are confined to steady-state conditions with limited predictive capability for mineralogical phases, modern plants operate under dynamic conditions that demand real-time quality assessment. Here, exploiting a comprehensive two-year operational dataset from an industrial cement plant, we present a machine learning framework that accurately predicts clinker mineralogy from process data. Our model achieves unprecedented prediction accuracy for major clinker phases while requiring minimal input parameters, demonstrating robust performance under varying operating conditions. Through post-hoc explainable algorithms, we interpret the hierarchical relationships between clinker oxides and phase formation, providing insights into the functioning of an otherwise black-box model. This digital twin framework can potentially enable real-time optimization of cement production, thereby providing a route toward reducing material waste and ensuring quality while reducing the associated emissions under real plant conditions. Our approach represents a significant advancement in industrial process control, offering a scalable solution for sustainable cement manufacturing.


---
# Data-driven prediction of structure of metal-organic frameworks

## 数据驱动的金属有机框架结构预测

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.10814

**Authors:** Elizaveta Yakovenko, Iurii Nevolin, Anatoliy Chasovskikh, Artem Mitrofanov, Vadim Korolev

arXiv:2408.10814v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Crystal structure prediction (CSP) has proven to be a highly effective route for discovering new materials. Substantial advancements have been made in CSP of inorganic and molecular crystals, while hybrid materials, including metal-organic frameworks (MOFs), have been unfairly overlooked. The ab initio techniques adopted for the CSP of MOFs cannot be scaled to a high-throughput regime, which is required for efficient exploration of the immense chemical space. Here, we propose a data-driven method to tackle current needs of computational MOF discovery. By examining CSP through the lens of reticular chemistry, coarse-grained neural networks were implemented to predict underlying net topology of crystal graphs. The models showed satisfactory performance, which was next enhanced by limiting the applicability domain. Flue gas separation was used as an illustrative example to validate the proposed CSP approach. Several hundred in silico-generated systems revealed a notable discrepancy in adsorption capacity among competing polymorphs.


---
# Machine Learning Small Polaron Dynamics

## 机器学习小极化子动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.16179

**Authors:** Viktor C. Birschitzky, Luca Leoni, Michele Reticcioli, Cesare Franchini

arXiv:2409.16179v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Polarons are crucial for charge transport in semiconductors, significantly impacting material properties and device performance. The dynamics of small polarons can be investigated using first-principles molecular dynamics (FPMD). However, the limited timescale of these simulations presents a challenge for adequately sampling infrequent polaron hopping events. Here, we introduce a message-passing neural network combined with FPMD within the Born-Oppenheimer approximation, that learns the polaronic potential energy surface by encoding the polaronic state, allowing for simulations of polaron hopping dynamics at the nanosecond scale. By leveraging the statistical significance of the long timescale, our framework can accurately estimate polaron (anisotropic) mobilities and activation barriers in prototypical polaronic oxides across different scenarios (hole polarons in rocksalt MgO and electron polarons in pristine and F-doped rutile TiO$_2$) within experimentally measured ranges.


---
# Solvation Free Energies from Neural Thermodynamic Integration

## 来自神经热力学积分的溶剂化自由能

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.15815

**Authors:** B\'alint M\'at\'e, Fran\c{c}ois Fleuret, Tristan Bereau

arXiv:2410.15815v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We present a method for computing free-energy differences using thermodynamic integration with a neural network potential that interpolates between two target Hamiltonians. The interpolation is defined at the sample distribution level, and the neural network potential is optimized to match the corresponding equilibrium potential at every intermediate time-step. Once the interpolating potentials and samples are well-aligned, the free-energy difference can be estimated using (neural) thermodynamic integration. To target molecular systems, we simultaneously couple Lennard-Jones and electrostatic interactions and model the rigid-body rotation of molecules. We report accurate results for several benchmark systems: a Lennard-Jones particle in a Lennard-Jones fluid, as well as the insertion of both water and methane solutes in a water solvent at atomistic resolution using a simple three-body neural-network potential.


---
# Tensor Network Computations That Capture Strict Variationality, Volume Law Behavior, and the Efficient Representation of Neural Network States

## 张量网络计算，可捕获严格的可变性，体积定律行为以及神经网络状态的有效表示

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.03797

**Authors:** Wen-Yuan Liu, Si-Jing Du, Ruojing Peng, Johnnie Gray, Garnet Kin-Lic Chan

arXiv:2405.03797v3 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: We introduce a change of perspective on tensor network states that is defined by the computational graph of the contraction of an amplitude. The resulting class of states, which we refer to as tensor network functions, inherit the conceptual advantages of tensor network states while removing computational restrictions arising from the need to converge approximate contractions. We use tensor network functions to compute strict variational estimates of the energy on loopy graphs, analyze their expressive power for ground-states, show that we can capture aspects of volume law time evolution, and provide a mapping of general feed-forward neural nets onto efficient tensor network functions. Our work expands the realm of computable tensor networks to ones where accurate contraction methods are not available, and opens up new avenues to use tensor networks.


---
# Regional Weather Variable Predictions by Machine Learning with Near-Surface Observational and Atmospheric Numerical Data

## 使用近地表观测和大气数值数据通过机器学习进行区域天气变量预测

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10450

**Authors:** Yihe Zhang, Bryce Turney, Purushottam Sigdel, Xu Yuan, Eric Rappin, Adrian Lago, Sytske Kimball, Li Chen, Paul Darby, Lu Peng, Sercan Aygun, Yazhou Tu, M. Hassan Najafi, Nian-Feng Tzeng

arXiv:2412.10450v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Accurate and timely regional weather prediction is vital for sectors dependent on weather-related decisions. Traditional prediction methods, based on atmospheric equations, often struggle with coarse temporal resolutions and inaccuracies. This paper presents a novel machine learning (ML) model, called MiMa (short for Micro-Macro), that integrates both near-surface observational data from Kentucky Mesonet stations (collected every five minutes, known as Micro data) and hourly atmospheric numerical outputs (termed as Macro data) for fine-resolution weather forecasting. The MiMa model employs an encoder-decoder transformer structure, with two encoders for processing multivariate data from both datasets and a decoder for forecasting weather variables over short time horizons. Each instance of the MiMa model, called a modelet, predicts the values of a specific weather parameter at an individual Mesonet station. The approach is extended with Re-MiMa modelets, which are designed to predict weather variables at ungauged locations by training on multivariate data from a few representative stations in a region, tagged with their elevations. Re-MiMa (short for Regional-MiMa) can provide highly accurate predictions across an entire region, even in areas without observational stations. Experimental results show that MiMa significantly outperforms current models, with Re-MiMa offering precise short-term forecasts for ungauged locations, marking a significant advancement in weather forecasting accuracy and applicability.


---
# Comparing Large Language Models for supervised analysis of students' lab notes

## 比较大型语言模型以监督分析学生的实验笔记

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10610

**Authors:** Rebeckah K. Fussell, Megan Flynn, Anil Damle, Michael F. J. Fox, N. G. Holmes

arXiv:2412.10610v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We compare the application of Bag of Words, BERT, and various flavors of LLaMA machine learning models to perform large-scale analysis of written text grounded in a physics education research classification problem: identifying skills in students' typed lab notes through sentence-level labeling. We evaluate the models based on their resource use, performance metrics, and research outcomes when identifying skills in lab notes. We find that higher-resource models often, but not necessarily, perform better than lower-resource models. We also find that all models estimate similar trends in research outcomes, although the absolute values of the estimated measurements are not always within uncertainties of each other. We use the results to discuss relevant considerations for education researchers seeking to select a model type to use as a classifier.


---
# Global Estimation of Subsurface Eddy Kinetic Energy of Mesoscale Eddies Using a Multiple-input Residual Neural Network

## 使用多输入残差神经网络对中尺度涡旋的地下涡旋动能进行全局估计

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10656

**Authors:** Chenyue Xie, An-Kang Gao, Xiyun Lu

arXiv:2412.10656v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Oceanic eddy kinetic energy (EKE) is a key quantity for measuring the intensity of mesoscale eddies and for parameterizing eddy effects in ocean climate models. Three decades of satellite altimetry observations allow a global assessment of sea surface information. However, the subsurface EKE with spatial filter has not been systematically studied due to the sparseness of subsurface observational data. The subsurface EKE can be inferred both theoretically and numerically from sea surface observations but is limited by the issue of decreasing correlation with sea surface variables as depth increases. In this work, inspired by the Taylor-series expansion of subsurface EKE, a multiple-input neural network approach is proposed to reconstruct the subsurface monthly mean EKE from sea surface variables and subsurface climatological variables (e.g., horizontal filtered velocity gradients). Four neural networks are trained on a high-resolution global ocean reanalysis dataset, namely, surface-input fully connected neural network model (FCNN), surface-input Residual neural network model (ResNet), multiple-input fully connected neural network model (MI-FCNN), and multiple-input residual neural network model (MI-ResNet). The proposed MI-FCNN and MI-ResNet models integrate the surface input variables and the vertical profiles of subsurface variables. The MI-ResNet model outperforms the FCNN, ResNet, and MI-FCNN models, and traditional physics-based models in both regional and global reconstruction of subsurface EKE in the upper 2000 m. In addition, the MI-ResNet model performs well for both regional and global observational data based on transfer learning. These findings reveal the potential of the MI-ResNet model for efficient and accurate reconstruction of subsurface oceanic variables.


---
# Vertically Integrated Dual-memtransistor Enabled Reconfigurable Heterosynaptic Sensorimotor Networks and In-memory Neuromorphic Computing

## 垂直集成的双记忆晶体管可重新配置的异突触感觉运动网络和内存中神经形态计算

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10757

**Authors:** Srilagna Sahoo, Abin Varghese, Aniket Sadashiva, Mayank Goyal, Jayatika Sakhuja, Debanjan Bhowmik, Saurabh Lodha

arXiv:2412.10757v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Neuromorphic in-memory computing requires area-efficient architecture for seamless and low latency parallel processing of large volumes of data. Here, we report a compact, vertically integrated/stratified field-effect transistor (VSFET) consisting of a 2D non-ferroelectric MoS$_2$ FET channel stacked on a 2D ferroelectric In$_2$Se$_3$ FET channel. Electrostatic coupling between the ferroelectric and non-ferroelectric semiconducting channels results in hysteretic transfer and output characteristics of both FETs. The gate-controlled MoS$_2$ memtransistor is shown to emulate homosynaptic plasticity behavior with low nonlinearity, low epoch, and high accuracy supervised (ANN - artificial neural network) and unsupervised (SNN - spiking neural network) on-chip learning. Further, simultaneous measurements of the MoS$_2$ and In$_2$Se$_3$ transistor synapses help realize complex heterosynaptic cooperation and competition behaviors. These are shown to mimic advanced sensorimotor neural network-controlled gill withdrawal reflex sensitization and habituation of a sea mollusk (Aplysia) with ultra-low power consumption. Finally, we show logic reconfigurability of the VSFET to realize Boolean gates thereby adding significant design flexibility for advanced computing technologies.


---
# Room temperature exciton-polariton neural network with perovskite crystal

## 钙钛矿晶体的室温激子-极化子神经网络

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10865

**Authors:** Andrzej Opala, Krzysztof Tyszka, Mateusz K\k{e}dziora, Magdalena Furman, Amir Rahmani, Stanis{\l}aw \'Swierczewski, Marek Ekielski, Anna Szerling, Micha{\l} Matuszewski, Barbara Pi\k{e}tka

arXiv:2412.10865v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Limitations of electronics have stimulated the search for novel unconventional computing platforms that enable energy-efficient and ultra-fast information processing. Among various systems, exciton-polaritons stand out as promising candidates for the realization of optical neuromorphic devices. This is due to their unique hybrid light-matter properties, resulting in strong optical nonlinearity and excellent transport capabilities. However, previous implementations of polariton neural networks have been restricted to cryogenic temperatures, limiting their practical applications. In this work, using non-equillibrium Bose-Einstein condensation in a monocrystalline perovskite waveguide, we demonstrate the first room-temperature exciton-polariton neural network. Its performance is verified in various machine learning tasks, including binary classification, and object detection. Our result is a crucial milestone in the development of practical applications of polariton neural networks and provides new perspectives for optical computing accelerators based on perovskites.


---
# Supervised cooperation on interdependent public goods games

## 相互依存的公共物品博弈中的监督合作

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10873

**Authors:** Ting Ling, Zhang Li, Minyu Feng, Attila Szolnoki

arXiv:2412.10873v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: It is a challenging task to reach global cooperation among self-interested agents, which often requires sophisticated design or usage of incentives. For example, we may apply supervisors or referees who are able to detect and punish selfishness. As a response, defectors may offer bribes for corrupt referees to remain hidden, hence generating a new conflict among supervisors. By using the interdependent network approach, we model the key element of the coevolution between strategy and judgment. In a game layer, agents play public goods game by using one of the two major strategies of a social dilemma. In a monitoring layer, supervisors follow the strategy change and may alter the income of competitors. Fair referees punish defectors while corrupt referees remain silent for a bribe. Importantly, there is a learning process not only among players but also among referees. Our results suggest that large fines and bribes boost the emergence of cooperation by significantly reducing the phase transition threshold between the pure defection state and the mixed solution where competing strategies coexist. Interestingly, the presence of bribes could be as harmful for defectors as the usage of harsh fines. The explanation of this system behavior is based on a strong correlation between cooperators and fair referees, which is cemented via overlapping clusters in both layers.


---
# Deep Learning Aided Multi-Objective Optimization and Multi-Criteria Decision Making in Thermal Cracking Process for Olefines Production

## 深度学习辅助的烯烃热裂解多目标优化与多准则决策

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11035

**Authors:** Seyed Reza Nabavi, Mohammad Javad Jafari, Zhiyuan Wang

arXiv:2412.11035v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Background: Multilayer perceptron (MLP) aided multi-objective particle swarm optimization algorithm (MOPSO) is employed in the present article to optimize the liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) thermal cracking process. This new approach significantly accelerated the multi-objective optimization (MOO), which can now be completed within one minute compared to the average of two days required by the conventional approach. Methods: MOO generates a set of equally good Pareto-optimal solutions, which are then ranked using a combination of a weighting method and five multi-criteria decision making (MCDM) methods. The final selection of a single solution for implementation is based on majority voting and the similarity of the recommended solutions from the MCDM methods. Significant Findings: The deep learning (DL) aided MOO and MCDM approach provides valuable insights into the trade-offs between conflicting objectives and a more comprehensive understanding of the relationships between them. Furthermore, this approach also allows for a deeper understanding of the impact of decision variables on the objectives, enabling practitioners to make more informed, data-driven decisions in the thermal cracking process.


---
# Hierarchical Bidirectional Transition Dispersion Entropy-based Lempel-Ziv Complexity and Its Application in Fault-Bearing Diagnosis

## 基于分层双向跃迁色散熵的lempel-ziv复杂度及其在轴承故障诊断中的应用

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11123

**Authors:** Runze Jiang, Pengjian Shang

arXiv:2412.11123v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Lempel-Ziv complexity (LZC) is a key measure for detecting the irregularity and complexity of nonlinear time series and has seen various improvements in recent decades. However, existing LZC-based metrics, such as Permutation Lempel-Ziv complexity (PLZC) and Dispersion-Entropy based Lempel-Ziv complexity (DELZC), focus mainly on patterns of independent embedding vectors, often overlooking the transition patterns within the time series. To address this gap, this paper introduces a novel LZC-based method called Bidirectional Transition Dispersion Entropy-based Lempel-Ziv complexity (BT-DELZC). Leveraging Markov chain theory, this method integrates a bidirectional transition network framework with DELZC to better capture dynamic signal information. Additionally, an improved hierarchical decomposition algorithm is used to extract features from various frequency components of the time series. The proposed BT-DELZC method is first evaluated through four simulated experiments, demonstrating its robustness and effectiveness in characterizing nonlinear time series. Additionally, two fault-bearing diagnosis experiments are conducted by combining the hierarchical BT-DELZC method with various classifiers from the machine learning domain. The results indicate that BT-DELZC achieves the highest accuracy across both datasets, significantly outperforming existing methods such as LZC, PLZC, and DELZC in extracting features related to fault bearings.


---
# Bayesian inference of mean velocity fields and turbulence models from flow MRI

## 流动MRI平均速度场和湍流模型的贝叶斯推断

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11266

**Authors:** A. Kontogiannis, P. Nair, M. Loecher, D. B. Ennis, A. Marsden, M. P. Juniper

arXiv:2412.11266v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We solve a Bayesian inverse Reynolds-averaged Navier-Stokes (RANS) problem that assimilates mean flow data by jointly reconstructing the mean flow field and learning its unknown RANS parameters. We devise an algorithm that learns the most likely parameters of an algebraic effective viscosity model, and estimates their uncertainties, from mean flow data of a turbulent flow. We conduct a flow MRI experiment to obtain mean flow data of a confined turbulent jet in an idealized medical device known as the FDA (Food and Drug Administration) nozzle. The algorithm successfully reconstructs the mean flow field and learns the most likely turbulence model parameters without overfitting. The methodology accepts any turbulence model, be it algebraic (explicit) or multi-equation (implicit), as long as the model is differentiable, and naturally extends to unsteady turbulent flows.


---
# A magneto-ionic synapse for reservoir computing

## 用于储层计算的磁离子突触

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11297

**Authors:** Sreeveni Das, Rhodri Mansell, Luk\'a\v{s} Flaj\v{s}man, Maria-Andromachi Syskaki, J\"urgen Langer, Sebastiaan van Dijken

arXiv:2412.11297v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Neuromorphic computing aims to revolutionize large-scale data processing by developing efficient methods and devices inspired by neural networks. Among these, the control of magnetism through ion migration has emerged as a promising approach due to the inherent memory and nonlinearity of ionically conducting and magnetic materials. In this work, we present a lithium-ion-based magneto-ionic device that uses applied voltages to control the magnetic domain state of a perpendicularly magnetized ferromagnetic layer. This behavior emulates the analog and non-volatile properties of biological synapses and enables the creation of a simple reservoir computing system. To illustrate its capabilities, the device is used in a waveform classification task, where the voltage amplitude range and magnetic bias field are tuned to optimize the recognition accuracy.


---
# Generative AI as a lab partner: a case study

## 生成AI作为实验室合作伙伴: 案例研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11300

**Authors:** Sebastian Kilde-Westberg, Andreas Johansson, Jonas Enger

arXiv:2412.11300v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Generative AI tools, including the popular ChatGPT, have made a clear mark on discourses related to future work and education practices. Previous research in science education has highlighted the potential for generative AI in various education-related areas, including generating valuable discussion material, solving physics problems, and acting as a tutor. However, little research has been done regarding the role of generative AI tools in laboratory work, an essential part of science education, and physics education specifically. Here we show various ways in which high school students use ChatGPT during a physics laboratory session and discuss the relevance of using generative AI tools to investigate acoustic levitation and the speed of sound in air. The findings show agreement with previous research regarding the importance of educating students about the capabilities and limitations of using generative AI. Contrasting fruitful and problematic interactions with ChatGPT during lab sessions with seven lab groups involving 19 high school students made it possible to identify that ChatGPT can be a helpful tool in the physics laboratory. However, the teacher plays a crucial role in identifying students' needs and capabilities of understanding the potential and limitations of generative AI. As such, our findings show that generative AI tools may handle some questions and problems and thus demonstrate their potential to help distribute teachers' workload more equitably during laboratory sessions. Finally, this study serves as an important point of discussion regarding the ways in which students need support and training to efficiently utilize generative AI to further their learning of physics.


---
# Broadband Unidirectional Visible Imaging Using Wafer-Scale Nano-Fabrication of Multi-Layer Diffractive Optical Processors

## 使用多层衍射光学处理器的晶圆级纳米制造的宽带单向可见光成像

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11374

**Authors:** Che-Yung Shen, Paolo Batoni, Xilin Yang, Jingxi Li, Kun Liao, Jared Stack, Jeff Gardner, Kevin Welch, Aydogan Ozcan

arXiv:2412.11374v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We present a broadband and polarization-insensitive unidirectional imager that operates at the visible part of the spectrum, where image formation occurs in one direction while in the opposite direction, it is blocked. This approach is enabled by deep learning-driven diffractive optical design with wafer-scale nano-fabrication using high-purity fused silica to ensure optical transparency and thermal stability. Our design achieves unidirectional imaging across three visible wavelengths (covering red, green and blue parts of the spectrum), and we experimentally validated this broadband unidirectional imager by creating high-fidelity images in the forward direction and generating weak, distorted output patterns in the backward direction, in alignment with our numerical simulations. This work demonstrates the wafer-scale production of diffractive optical processors, featuring 16 levels of nanoscale phase features distributed across two axially aligned diffractive layers for visible unidirectional imaging. This approach facilitates mass-scale production of ~0.5 billion nanoscale phase features per wafer, supporting high-throughput manufacturing of hundreds to thousands of multi-layer diffractive processors suitable for large apertures and parallel processing of multiple tasks. Our design can seamlessly integrate into conventional optical systems, broadening its applicability in fields such as security, defense, and telecommunication. Beyond broadband unidirectional imaging in the visible spectrum, this study establishes a pathway for artificial-intelligence-enabled diffractive optics with versatile applications, signaling a new era in optical device functionality with industrial-level massively scalable fabrication.


---
# Leveraging Machine Learning to Overcome Limitations in Quantum Algorithms

## 利用机器学习克服量子算法的局限性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11405

**Authors:** Laia Coronas Sala (Lighthouse Disruptive Innovation Group S.L), Parfait Atchade-Adelemou (Lighthouse Disruptive Innovation Group S.L, MIT Media Lab)

arXiv:2412.11405v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Quantum Computing (QC) offers outstanding potential for molecular characterization and drug discovery, particularly in solving complex properties like the Ground State Energy (GSE) of biomolecules. However, QC faces challenges due to computational noise, scalability, and system complexity. This work presents a hybrid framework combining Machine Learning (ML) techniques with quantum algorithms$-$Variational Quantum Eigensolver (VQE), Hartree-Fock (HF), and Quantum Phase Estimation (QPE)$-$to improve GSE predictions for large molecules. Three datasets (chemical descriptors, Coulomb matrices, and a hybrid combination) were prepared using molecular features from PubChem. These datasets trained XGBoost (XGB), Random Forest (RF), and LightGBM (LGBM) models. XGB achieved the lowest Relative Error (RE) of $4.41 \pm 11.18\%$ on chemical descriptors, outperforming RF ($5.56 \pm 11.66\%$) and LGBM ($5.32 \pm 12.87\%$). HF delivered exceptional precision for small molecules ($0.44 \pm 0.66\% RE$), while a near-linear correlation between GSE and molecular electron count provided predictive shortcuts. This study demonstrates that integrating QC and ML enhances scalability for molecular energy predictions and lays the foundation for scaling QC molecular simulations to larger systems.


---
# Sub-quadratic scalable approximate linear converter using multi-plane light conversion with low-entropy mode mixers

## 使用具有低熵模式混合器的多平面光转换的次二次可扩展近似线性转换器

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11515

**Authors:** Yoshitaka Taguchi

arXiv:2412.11515v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Optical computing is emerging as a promising platform for energy-efficient, high-throughput hardware in deep learning. A key challenge lies in the realization of optical matrix-vector multiplication, which often requires $O(N^2)$ phase shifters for exact synthesis of $N \times N$ matrices, limiting scalability. In this study, we propose an approximate matrix realization method using multi-plane light conversion (MPLC) that reduces both the system size and the number of phase shifters while maintaining acceptable error bounds. This approach uses low-entropy mode mixers, allowing more compact implementations compared to conventional mixers. We introduce Shannon matrix entropy as a measure of mode coupling strength in mixers and demonstrate that low-entropy mixers can preserve computational accuracy while reducing the requirements for the mixers. The approximation quality is evaluated using the maximum norm between the target and realized matrices. Numerical results show that the proposed method achieves sub-quadratic scaling of phase shifters by tolerating predefined error thresholds. To identify efficient architectures for implementing general linear matrices, we compare block-encoding (BE) and singular-value decomposition (SVD) schemes for realizing general linear matrices using unitary converters based on MPLC. Results indicate that BE exhibits superior iterative configuration properties beyond the unitary group. By characterizing the trade-offs between matrix entropy, number of phase shifter layers, and the error tolerance, this study provides a framework for designing scalable and efficient approximate optical converters.


---
# The dark side of the forces: assessing non-conservative force models for atomistic machine learning

## 力量的阴暗面: 评估原子机器学习的非保守力量模型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11569

**Authors:** Filippo Bigi, Marcel Langer, Michele Ceriotti

arXiv:2412.11569v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The use of machine learning to estimate the energy of a group of atoms, and the forces that drive them to more stable configurations, have revolutionized the fields of computational chemistry and materials discovery. In this domain, rigorous enforcement of symmetry and conservation laws has traditionally been considered essential. For this reason, interatomic forces are usually computed as the derivatives of the potential energy, ensuring energy conservation. Several recent works have questioned this physically-constrained approach, suggesting that using the forces as explicit learning targets yields a better trade-off between accuracy and computational efficiency - and that energy conservation can be learned during training. The present work investigates the applicability of such non-conservative models in microscopic simulations. We identify and demonstrate several fundamental issues, from ill-defined convergence of geometry optimization to instability in various types of molecular dynamics. Contrary to the case of rotational symmetry, lack of energy conservation is hard to learn, control, and correct. The best approach to exploit the acceleration afforded by direct force evaluation might be to use it in tandem with a conservative model, reducing - rather than eliminating - the additional cost of backpropagation, but avoiding most of the pathological behavior associated with non-conservative forces.


---
# Prediction of social dilemmas in networked populations via graph neural networks

## 基于图神经网络的网络群体社会困境预测

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11775

**Authors:** Huaiyu Tan, Yikang Lu, Alfonso de Miguel-Arribas, Lei Shi

arXiv:2412.11775v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Human behavior presents significant challenges for data-driven approaches and machine learning, particularly in modeling the emergent and complex dynamics observed in social dilemmas. These challenges complicate the accurate prediction of strategic decision-making in structured populations, which is crucial for advancing our understanding of collective behavior. In this work, we introduce a novel approach to predicting high-dimensional collective behavior in structured populations engaged in social dilemmas. We propose a new feature extraction methodology, Topological Marginal Information Feature Extraction (TMIFE), which captures agent-level information over time. Leveraging TMIFE, we employ a graph neural network to encode networked dynamics and predict evolutionary outcomes under various social dilemma scenarios. Our approach is validated through numerical simulations and transfer learning, demonstrating its robustness and predictive accuracy. Furthermore, results from a Prisoner's Dilemma experiment involving human participants confirm that our method reliably predicts the macroscopic fraction of cooperation. These findings underscore the complexity of predicting high-dimensional behavior in structured populations and highlight the potential of graph-based machine learning techniques for this task.


---
# DRUM: Diffusion-based runoff model for probabilistic flood forecasting

## DRUM: 基于扩散的概率洪水预报径流模型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11942

**Authors:** Zhigang Ou, Congyi Nai, Baoxiang Pan, Ming Pan, Chaopeng Shen, Peishi Jiang, Xingcai Liu, Qiuhong Tang, Wenqing Li, Yi Zheng

arXiv:2412.11942v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Reliable flood forecasting remains a critical challenge due to persistent underestimation of peak flows and inadequate uncertainty quantification in current approaches. We present DRUM (Diffusion-based Runoff Model), a generative AI solution for probabilistic runoff prediction. DRUM builds up an iterative refinement process that generates ensemble runoff estimates from noise, guided by past meteorological conditions, present meteorological forecasts, and static catchment attributes. This framework allows learning complex hydrological behaviors without imposing explicit distributional assumptions, particularly benefiting extreme event prediction and uncertainty quantification. Using data from 531 representative basins across the contiguous United States, DRUM outperforms state-of-the-art deep learning methods in runoff forecasting regarding both deterministic and probabilistic skills, with particular advantages in extreme flow (0.1%) predictions. DRUM demonstrates superior flood early warning skill across all magnitudes and lead times (1-7 days), achieving F1 scores near 0.4 for extreme events under perfect forecasts and maintaining robust performance with operational forecasts, especially for longer lead times and high-magnitude floods. When applied to climate projections through the 21st century, DRUM reveals increasing flood vulnerability in 47.8-57.1% of basins across emission scenarios, with particularly elevated risks along the West Coast and Southeast regions. These advances demonstrate significant potential for improving both operational flood forecasting and long-term risk assessment in a changing climate.


---
# Nonlinear Reduced-Order Modeling of Compressible Flow Fields Using Deep Learning and Manifold Learning

## 基于深度学习和流形学习的可压缩流场非线性降阶建模

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.12088

**Authors:** Bilal Mufti, Christian Perron, Dimitri N. Mavris

arXiv:2412.12088v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: This paper presents a nonlinear reduced-order modeling (ROM) framework that leverages deep learning and manifold learning to predict compressible flow fields with complex nonlinear features, including shock waves. The proposed DeepManifold (DM)-ROM methodology is computationally efficient, avoids pixelation or interpolation of flow field data, and is adaptable to various grids and geometries. The framework consists of four main steps: First, a convolutional neural network (CNN)-based parameterization network extracts nonlinear shape modes directly from aerodynamic geometries. Next, manifold learning is applied to reduce the dimensionality of the high-fidelity output flow fields. A multilayer perceptron (MLP)-based regression network is then trained to map the nonlinear input and output modes. Finally, a back-mapping process reconstructs the full flow field from the predicted low-dimensional output modes. DM-ROM is rigorously tested on a transonic RAE2822 airfoil test case, which includes shock waves of varying strengths and locations. Metrics are introduced to quantify the model's accuracy in predicting shock wave strength and location. The results demonstrate that DM-ROM achieves a field prediction error of approximately 3.5% and significantly outperforms reference ROM techniques, such as POD-ROM and ISOMAP-ROM, across various training sample sizes.


---
# CHIPS-FF: Evaluating Universal Machine Learning Force Fields for Material Properties

## CHIPS-FF: 评估材料特性的通用机器学习力场

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10516

**Authors:** Daniel Wines, Kamal Choudhary

arXiv:2412.10516v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: In this work, we introduce CHIPS-FF (Computational High-Performance Infrastructure for Predictive Simulation-based Force Fields), a universal, open-source benchmarking platform for machine learning force fields (MLFFs). This platform provides robust evaluation beyond conventional metrics such as energy, focusing on complex properties including elastic constants, phonon spectra, defect formation energies, surface energies, and interfacial and amorphous phase properties. Utilizing 13 graph-based MLFF models including ALIGNN-FF, CHGNet, MatGL, MACE, SevenNet, ORB and OMat24, the CHIPS-FF workflow integrates the Atomic Simulation Environment (ASE) with JARVIS-Tools to facilitate automated high-throughput simulations. Our framework is tested on a set of 104 materials, including metals, semiconductors and insulators representative of those used in semiconductor components, with each MLFF evaluated for convergence, accuracy, and computational cost. Additionally, we evaluate the force-prediction accuracy of these models for close to 2 million atomic structures. By offering a streamlined, flexible benchmarking infrastructure, CHIPS-FF aims to guide the development and deployment of MLFFs for real-world semiconductor applications, bridging the gap between quantum mechanical simulations and large-scale device modeling.


---
# NeuralPLexer3: Physio-Realistic Biomolecular Complex Structure Prediction with Flow Models

## NeuralPLexer3: 具有流动模型的生理现实生物分子复杂结构预测

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10743

**Authors:** Zhuoran Qiao, Feizhi Ding, Thomas Dresselhaus, Mia A. Rosenfeld, Xiaotian Han, Owen Howell, Aniketh Iyengar, Stephen Opalenski, Anders S. Christensen, Sai Krishna Sirumalla, Frederick R. Manby, Thomas F. Miller III, Matthew Welborn

arXiv:2412.10743v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Structure determination is essential to a mechanistic understanding of diseases and the development of novel therapeutics. Machine-learning-based structure prediction methods have made significant advancements by computationally predicting protein and bioassembly structures from sequences and molecular topology alone. Despite substantial progress in the field, challenges remain to deliver structure prediction models to real-world drug discovery. Here, we present NeuralPLexer3 -- a physics-inspired flow-based generative model that achieves state-of-the-art prediction accuracy on key biomolecular interaction types and improves training and sampling efficiency compared to its predecessors and alternative methodologies. Examined through newly developed benchmarking strategies, NeuralPLexer3 excels in vital areas that are crucial to structure-based drug design, such as physical validity and ligand-induced conformational changes.


---
# A Pioneering Neural Network Method for Efficient and Robust Fuel Sloshing Simulation in Aircraft

## 一种用于飞机燃油晃动仿真的开创性神经网络方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10748

**Authors:** Yu Chen, Shuai Zheng, Nianyi Wang, Menglong Jin, Yan Chang

arXiv:2412.10748v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Simulating fuel sloshing within aircraft tanks during flight is crucial for aircraft safety research. Traditional methods based on Navier-Stokes equations are computationally expensive. In this paper, we treat fluid motion as point cloud transformation and propose the first neural network method specifically designed for simulating fuel sloshing in aircraft. This model is also the deep learning model that is the first to be capable of stably modeling fluid particle dynamics in such complex scenarios. Our triangle feature fusion design achieves an optimal balance among fluid dynamics modeling, momentum conservation constraints, and global stability control. Additionally, we constructed the Fueltank dataset, the first dataset for aircraft fuel surface sloshing. It comprises 320,000 frames across four typical tank types and covers a wide range of flight maneuvers, including multi-directional rotations. We conducted comprehensive experiments on both our dataset and the take-off scenario of the aircraft. Compared to existing neural network-based fluid simulation algorithms, we significantly enhanced accuracy while maintaining high computational speed. Compared to traditional SPH methods, our speed improved approximately 10 times. Furthermore, compared to traditional fluid simulation software such as Flow3D, our computation speed increased by more than 300 times.


---
# Graph Attention Hamiltonian Neural Networks: A Lattice System Analysis Model Based on Structural Learning

## 图注意哈密顿神经网络: 一种基于结构学习的格系统分析模型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10821

**Authors:** Ru Geng, Yixian Gao, Jian Zu, Hong-Kun Zhang

arXiv:2412.10821v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: A deep understanding of the intricate interactions between particles within a system is a key approach to revealing the essential characteristics of the system, whether it is an in-depth analysis of molecular properties in the field of chemistry or the design of new materials for specific performance requirements in materials science. To this end, we propose Graph Attention Hamiltonian Neural Network (GAHN), a neural network method that can understand the underlying structure of lattice Hamiltonian systems solely through the dynamic trajectories of particles. We can determine which particles in the system interact with each other, the proportion of interactions between different particles, and whether the potential energy of interactions between particles exhibits even symmetry or not. The obtained structure helps the neural network model to continue predicting the trajectory of the system and further understand the dynamic properties of the system. In addition to understanding the underlying structure of the system, it can be used for detecting lattice structural abnormalities, such as link defects, abnormal interactions, etc. These insights benefit system optimization, design, and detection of aging or damage. Moreover, this approach can integrate other components to deduce the link structure needed for specific parts, showcasing its scalability and potential. We tested it on a challenging molecular dynamics dataset, and the results proved its ability to accurately infer molecular bond connectivity, highlighting its scientific research potential.


---
# Deep Learning Models for Colloidal Nanocrystal Synthesis

## 用于胶体纳米晶体合成的深度学习模型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10838

**Authors:** Kai Gu, Yingping Liang, Jiaming Su, Peihan Sun, Jia Peng, Naihua Miao, Zhimei Sun, Ying Fu, Haizheng Zhong, Jun Zhang

arXiv:2412.10838v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Colloidal synthesis of nanocrystals usually includes complex chemical reactions and multi-step crystallization processes. Despite the great success in the past 30 years, it remains challenging to clarify the correlations between synthetic parameters of chemical reaction and physical properties of nanocrystals. Here, we developed a deep learning-based nanocrystal synthesis model that correlates synthetic parameters with the final size and shape of target nanocrystals, using a dataset of 3500 recipes covering 348 distinct nanocrystal compositions. The size and shape labels were obtained from transmission electron microscope images using a segmentation model trained with a semi-supervised algorithm on a dataset comprising 1.2 million nanocrystals. By applying the reaction intermediate-based data augmentation method and elaborated descriptors, the synthesis model was able to predict nanocrystal's size with a mean absolute error of 1.39 nm, while reaching an 89% average accuracy for shape classification. The synthesis model shows knowledge transfer capabilities across different nanocrystals with inputs of new recipes. With that, the influence of chemicals on the final size of nanocrystals was further evaluated, revealing the importance order of nanocrystal composition, precursor or ligand, and solvent. Overall, the deep learning-based nanocrystal synthesis model offers a powerful tool to expedite the development of high-quality nanocrystals.


---
# A Staged Deep Learning Approach to Spatial Refinement in 3D Temporal Atmospheric Transport

## 一种分阶段的深度学习方法，用于3D时间大气传输中的空间细化

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10945

**Authors:** M. Giselle Fern\'andez-Godino, Wai Tong Chung, Akshay A. Gowardhan, Matthias Ihme, Qingkai Kong, Donald D. Lucas, Stephen C. Myers

arXiv:2412.10945v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: High-resolution spatiotemporal simulations effectively capture the complexities of atmospheric plume dispersion in complex terrain. However, their high computational cost makes them impractical for applications requiring rapid responses or iterative processes, such as optimization, uncertainty quantification, or inverse modeling. To address this challenge, this work introduces the Dual-Stage Temporal Three-dimensional UNet Super-resolution (DST3D-UNet-SR) model, a highly efficient deep learning model for plume dispersion prediction. DST3D-UNet-SR is composed of two sequential modules: the temporal module (TM), which predicts the transient evolution of a plume in complex terrain from low-resolution temporal data, and the spatial refinement module (SRM), which subsequently enhances the spatial resolution of the TM predictions. We train DST3DUNet- SR using a comprehensive dataset derived from high-resolution large eddy simulations (LES) of plume transport. We propose the DST3D-UNet-SR model to significantly accelerate LES simulations of three-dimensional plume dispersion by three orders of magnitude. Additionally, the model demonstrates the ability to dynamically adapt to evolving conditions through the incorporation of new observational data, substantially improving prediction accuracy in high-concentration regions near the source.
  Keywords: Atmospheric sciences, Geosciences, Plume transport,3D temporal sequences, Artificial intelligence, CNN, LSTM, Autoencoder, Autoregressive model, U-Net, Super-resolution, Spatial Refinement.


---
# EquiFlow: Equivariant Conditional Flow Matching with Optimal Transport for 3D Molecular Conformation Prediction

## 等流: 用于3D分子构象预测的具有最佳传输的等变条件流匹配

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11082

**Authors:** Qingwen Tian, Yuxin Xu, Yixuan Yang, Zhen Wang, Ziqi Liu, Pengju Yan, Xiaolin Li

arXiv:2412.11082v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Molecular 3D conformations play a key role in determining how molecules interact with other molecules or protein surfaces. Recent deep learning advancements have improved conformation prediction, but slow training speeds and difficulties in utilizing high-degree features limit performance. We propose EquiFlow, an equivariant conditional flow matching model with optimal transport. EquiFlow uniquely applies conditional flow matching in molecular 3D conformation prediction, leveraging simulation-free training to address slow training speeds. It uses a modified Equiformer model to encode Cartesian molecular conformations along with their atomic and bond properties into higher-degree embeddings. Additionally, EquiFlow employs an ODE solver, providing faster inference speeds compared to diffusion models with SDEs. Experiments on the QM9 dataset show that EquiFlow predicts small molecule conformations more accurately than current state-of-the-art models.


---
# Category-Specific Topological Learning of Metal-Organic Frameworks

## 金属有机框架的类别特定拓扑学习

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11386

**Authors:** Dong Chen, Chun-Long Chen, Guo-Wei Wei

arXiv:2412.11386v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) are porous, crystalline materials with high surface area, adjustable porosity, and structural tunability, making them ideal for diverse applications. However, traditional experimental and computational methods have limited scalability and interpretability, hindering effective exploration of MOF structure-property relationships. To address these challenges, we introduce, for the first time, a category-specific topological learning (CSTL), which combines algebraic topology with chemical insights for robust property prediction. The model represents MOF structures as simplicial complexes and incorporates elemental categorizations to enable balanced, interpretable machine learning study. By integrating category-specific persistent homology, CSTL captures both global and local structural characteristics, rendering multi-dimensional, category-specific descriptors that support a predictive model with high accuracy and robustness across eight MOF datasets, outperforming all previous results. This alignment of topological and chemical features enhances the predictive power and interpretability of CSTL, advancing understanding of structure-property relationships of MOFs and promoting efficient material discovery.


---
# Superionic Ionic Conductor Discovery via Multiscale Topological Learning

## 通过多尺度拓扑学习发现超离子离子导体

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11398

**Authors:** Dong Chen, Bingxu Wang, Shunning Li, Wentao Zhang, Kai Yang, Yongli Song, Guo-Wei Wei, Feng Pan

arXiv:2412.11398v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Lithium superionic conductors (LSICs) are crucial for next-generation solid-state batteries, offering exceptional ionic conductivity and enhanced safety for renewable energy and electric vehicles. However, their discovery is extremely challenging due to the vast chemical space, limited labeled data, and the understanding of complex structure-function relationships required for optimizing ion transport. This study introduces a multiscale topological learning (MTL) framework, integrating algebraic topology and unsupervised learning to tackle these challenges efficiently. By modeling lithium-only and lithium-free substructures, the framework extracts multiscale topological features and introduces two topological screening metrics-cycle density and minimum connectivity distance-to ensure structural connectivity and ion diffusion compatibility. Promising candidates are clustered via unsupervised algorithms to identify those resembling known superionic conductors. For final refinement, candidates that pass chemical screening undergo ab initio molecular dynamics simulations for validation. This approach led to the discovery of 14 novel LSICs, four of which have been independently validated in recent experiments. This success accelerates the identification of LSICs and demonstrates broad adaptability, offering a scalable tool for addressing complex materials discovery challenges.


---
# Bayesian Flow Is All You Need to Sample Out-of-Distribution Chemical Spaces

## 贝叶斯流是采样分布外化学空间所需的全部

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11439

**Authors:** Nianze Tao

arXiv:2412.11439v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Generating novel molecules with higher properties than the training space, namely the out-of-distribution generation, is important for ${de~novo}$ drug design. However, it is not easy for distribution learning-based models, for example diffusion models, to solve this challenge as these methods are designed to fit the distribution of training data as close as possible. In this paper, we show that Bayesian flow network is capable of effortlessly generating high quality out-of-distribution samples that meet several scenarios. We introduce a semi-autoregressive training/sampling method that helps to enhance the model performance and surpass the state-of-the-art models.


---
# Specific Heat Anomalies and Local Symmetry Breaking in (Anti-)Fluorite Materials: A Machine Learning Molecular Dynamics Study

## (反) 萤石材料的比热异常和局部对称性破坏: 机器学习分子动力学研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11518

**Authors:** Keita Kobayashi, Hiroki Nakamura, Masahiko Okumura, Mitsuhiro Itakura, Masahiko Machida

arXiv:2412.11518v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Understanding the high-temperature properties of materials with (anti-)fluorite structures is crucial for their application in nuclear reactors. In this study, we employ machine learning molecular dynamics (MLMD) simulations to investigate the high-temperature thermal properties of thorium dioxide, which has a fluorite structure, and lithium oxide, which has an anti-fluorite structure. Our results show that MLMD simulations effectively reproduce the reported thermal properties of these materials. A central focus of this work is the analysis of specific heat anomalies in these materials at high temperatures, commonly referred to as Bredig, pre-melting, or $\lambda$-transitions. We demonstrate that a local order parameter, analogous to those used to describe liquid-liquid transitions in supercooled water and liquid silica, can effectively characterize these specific heat anomalies. The local order parameter identifies two distinct types of defective structures: lattice defect-like and liquid-like local structures. Above the transition temperature, liquid-like local structures predominate, and the sub-lattice character of mobile atoms disappears.


---
# CrystalFlow: A Flow-Based Generative Model for Crystalline Materials

## CrystalFlow: 一种基于流的晶体材料生成模型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11693

**Authors:** Xiaoshan Luo, Zhenyu Wang, Jian Lv, Lei Wang, Yanchao Wang, Yanming Ma

arXiv:2412.11693v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Deep learning-based generative models have emerged as powerful tools for modeling complex data distributions and generating high-fidelity samples, offering a transformative approach to efficiently explore the configuration space of crystalline materials. In this work, we present CrystalFlow, a flow-based generative model specifically developed for the generation of crystalline materials. CrystalFlow constructs Continuous Normalizing Flows to model lattice parameters, atomic coordinates, and/or atom types, which are trained using Conditional Flow Matching techniques. Through an appropriate choice of data representation and the integration of a graph-based equivariant neural network, the model effectively captures the fundamental symmetries of crystalline materials, which ensures data-efficient learning and enables high-quality sampling. Our experiments demonstrate that CrystalFlow achieves state-of-the-art performance across standard generation benchmarks, and exhibits versatile conditional generation capabilities including producing structures optimized for specific external pressures or desired material properties. These features highlight the model's potential to address realistic crystal structure prediction challenges, offering a robust and efficient framework for advancing data-driven research in condensed matter physics and material science.


---
# Fully convolutional networks for velocity-field predictions based on the wall heat flux in turbulent boundary layers

## 基于湍流边界层壁热通量的速度场预测的全卷积网络

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2208.06024

**Authors:** L. Guastoni, A. G. Balasubramanian, F. Foroozan, A. G\"uemes, A. Ianiro, S. Discetti, P. Schlatter, H. Azizpour, R. Vinuesa

arXiv:2208.06024v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Fully-convolutional neural networks (FCN) were proven to be effective for predicting the instantaneous state of a fully-developed turbulent flow at different wall-normal locations using quantities measured at the wall. In Guastoni et al. [J. Fluid Mech. 928, A27 (2021)], we focused on wall-shear-stress distributions as input, which are difficult to measure in experiments. In order to overcome this limitation, we introduce a model that can take as input the heat-flux field at the wall from a passive scalar. Four different Prandtl numbers $Pr = \nu/\alpha = (1,2,4,6)$ are considered (where $\nu$ is the kinematic viscosity and $\alpha$ is the thermal diffusivity of the scalar quantity). A turbulent boundary layer is simulated since accurate heat-flux measurements can be performed in experimental settings: first we train the network on aptly-modified DNS data and then we fine-tune it on the experimental data. Finally, we test our network on experimental data sampled in a water tunnel. These predictions represent the first application of transfer learning on experimental data of neural networks trained on simulations. This paves the way for the implementation of a non-intrusive sensing approach for the flow in practical applications.


---
# Event-by-event Comparison between Machine-Learning- and Transfer-Matrix-based Unfolding Methods

## 基于机器学习和基于转移矩阵的展开方法之间的逐事件比较

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.17037

**Authors:** Mathias Backes, Anja Butter, Monica Dunford, Bogdan Malaescu

arXiv:2310.17037v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: The unfolding of detector effects is a key aspect of comparing experimental data with theoretical predictions. In recent years, different Machine-Learning methods have been developed to provide novel features, e.g. high dimensionality or a probabilistic single-event unfolding based on generative neural networks. Traditionally, many analyses unfold detector effects using transfer-matrix--based algorithms, which are well established in low-dimensional unfolding. They yield an unfolded distribution of the total spectrum, together with its covariance matrix. This paper proposes a method to obtain probabilistic single-event unfolded distributions, together with their uncertainties and correlations, for the transfer-matrix--based unfolding. The algorithm is first validated on a toy model and then applied to pseudo-data for the $pp\rightarrow Z\gamma \gamma$ process. In both examples the performance is compared to the Machine-Learning--based single-event unfolding using an iterative approach with conditional invertible neural networks (IcINN).


---
# ArcaNN: automated enhanced sampling generation of training sets for chemically reactive machine learning interatomic potentials

## ArcaNN: 用于化学反应机器学习原子间势的训练集的自动增强采样生成

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.07751

**Authors:** Rolf David (PASTEUR, D\'epartement de Chimie, \'Ecole Normale Sup\'erieure, PSL University, Sorbonne University, CNRS, Paris), Miguel de la Puente (PASTEUR, D\'epartement de Chimie, \'Ecole Normale Sup\'erieure, PSL University, Sorbonne University, CNRS, Paris), Axel Gomez (PASTEUR, D\'epartement de Chimie, \'Ecole Normale Sup\'erieure, PSL University, Sorbonne University, CNRS, Paris), Olaia Anton (PASTEUR, D\'epartement de Chimie, \'Ecole Normale Sup\'erieure, PSL University, Sorbonne University, CNRS, Paris), Guillaume Stirnemann (PASTEUR, D\'epartement de Chimie, \'Ecole Normale Sup\'erieure, PSL University, Sorbonne University, CNRS, Paris), Damien Laage (PASTEUR, D\'epartement de Chimie, \'Ecole Normale Sup\'erieure, PSL University, Sorbonne University, CNRS, Paris)

arXiv:2407.07751v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: The emergence of artificial intelligence has profoundly impacted computational chemistry, particularly through machine-learned potentials (MLPs), which offer a balance of accuracy and efficiency in calculating atomic energies and forces to be used in molecular dynamics simulations. These MLPs have significantly advanced molecular dynamics simulations across various applications, including large-scale simulations of materials, interfaces, and chemical reactions. Despite these advances, the construction of training datasets - a critical component for the accuracy of MLPs - has not received proportional attention. This is particularly critical for chemical reactivity which depends on rare barrier-crossing events. Here we address this gap by introducing ArcaNN, a comprehensive framework designed for generating training datasets for reactive MLPs. ArcaNN employs a concurrent learning approach combined with advanced sampling techniques to ensure accurate representation of high-energy geometries. The framework integrates automated processes for iterative training, exploration, new configuration selection, and energy and force labeling, while ensuring reproducibility and documentation. We demonstrate ArcaNN's capabilities through a paradigm nucleophilic substitution reaction in solution, showcasing its effectiveness, the uniformly low error of the resulting MLP everywhere along the chemical reaction coordinate, and its potential for broad applications in reactive molecular dynamics. We also provide guidelines on how to assess the quality of a NNP for a reactive system.


---
# TransPeakNet: Solvent-Aware 2D NMR Prediction via Multi-Task Pre-Training and Unsupervised Learning

## TransPeakNet: 通过多任务预训练和无监督学习实现溶剂感知2D NMR预测

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11353

**Authors:** Yunrui Li, Hao Xu, Ambrish Kumar, Duosheng Wang, Christian Heiss, Parastoo Azadi, Pengyu Hong

arXiv:2403.11353v4 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) spectroscopy is essential for revealing molecular structure, electronic environment, and dynamics. Accurate NMR shift prediction allows researchers to validate structures by comparing predicted and observed shifts. While Machine Learning (ML) has improved one-dimensional (1D) NMR shift prediction, predicting 2D NMR remains challenging due to limited annotated data. To address this, we introduce an unsupervised training framework for predicting cross-peaks in 2D NMR, specifically Heteronuclear Single Quantum Coherence (HSQC).Our approach pretrains an ML model on an annotated 1D dataset of 1H and 13C shifts, then finetunes it in an unsupervised manner using unlabeled HSQC data, which simultaneously generates cross-peak annotations. Our model also adjusts for solvent effects. Evaluation on 479 expert-annotated HSQC spectra demonstrates our model's superiority over traditional methods (ChemDraw and Mestrenova), achieving Mean Absolute Errors (MAEs) of 2.05 ppm and 0.165 ppm for 13C shifts and 1H shifts respectively. Our algorithmic annotations show a 95.21% concordance with experts' assignments, underscoring the approach's potential for structural elucidation in fields like organic chemistry, pharmaceuticals, and natural products.


---
# Tensor Network Computations That Capture Strict Variationality, Volume Law Behavior, and the Efficient Representation of Neural Network States

## 张量网络计算，可捕获严格的可变性，体积定律行为以及神经网络状态的有效表示

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.03797

**Authors:** Wen-Yuan Liu, Si-Jing Du, Ruojing Peng, Johnnie Gray, Garnet Kin-Lic Chan

arXiv:2405.03797v3 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: We introduce a change of perspective on tensor network states that is defined by the computational graph of the contraction of an amplitude. The resulting class of states, which we refer to as tensor network functions, inherit the conceptual advantages of tensor network states while removing computational restrictions arising from the need to converge approximate contractions. We use tensor network functions to compute strict variational estimates of the energy on loopy graphs, analyze their expressive power for ground-states, show that we can capture aspects of volume law time evolution, and provide a mapping of general feed-forward neural nets onto efficient tensor network functions. Our work expands the realm of computable tensor networks to ones where accurate contraction methods are not available, and opens up new avenues to use tensor networks.


---
# Automated Molecular Concept Generation and Labeling with Large Language Models

## 使用大型语言模型自动生成分子概念和标记

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.09612

**Authors:** Zimin Zhang, Qianli Wu, Botao Xia, Fang Sun, Ziniu Hu, Yizhou Sun, Shichang Zhang

arXiv:2406.09612v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Artificial intelligence (AI) is transforming scientific research, with explainable AI methods like concept-based models (CMs) showing promise for new discoveries. However, in molecular science, CMs are less common than black-box models like Graph Neural Networks (GNNs), due to their need for predefined concepts and manual labeling. This paper introduces the Automated Molecular Concept (AutoMolCo) framework, which leverages Large Language Models (LLMs) to automatically generate and label predictive molecular concepts. Through iterative concept refinement, AutoMolCo enables simple linear models to outperform GNNs and LLM in-context learning on several benchmarks. The framework operates without human knowledge input, overcoming limitations of existing CMs while maintaining explainability and allowing easy intervention. Experiments on MoleculeNet and High-Throughput Experimentation (HTE) datasets demonstrate that AutoMolCo-induced explainable CMs are beneficial for molecular science research.


---
# Neural information field filter

## 神经信息场滤波器

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.16502

**Authors:** Kairui Hao, Ilias Bilionis

arXiv:2407.16502v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: We introduce neural information field filter, a Bayesian state and parameter estimation method for high-dimensional nonlinear dynamical systems given large measurement datasets. Solving such a problem using traditional methods, such as Kalman and particle filters, is computationally expensive. Information field theory is a Bayesian approach that can efficiently reconstruct dynamical model state paths and calibrate model parameters from noisy measurement data. To apply the method, we parameterize the time evolution state path using the span of a finite linear basis. The existing method has to reparameterize the state path by initial states to satisfy the initial condition. Designing an expressive yet simple linear basis before knowing the true state path is crucial for inference accuracy but challenging. Moreover, reparameterizing the state path using the initial state is easy to perform for a linear basis, but is nontrivial for more complex and expressive function parameterizations, such as neural networks. The objective of this paper is to simplify and enrich the class of state path parameterizations using neural networks for the information field theory approach. To this end, we propose a generalized physics-informed conditional prior using an auxiliary initial state. We show the existing reparameterization is a special case. We parameterize the state path using a residual neural network that consists of a linear basis function and a Fourier encoding fully connected neural network residual function. The residual function aims to correct the error of the linear basis function. To sample from the intractable posterior distribution, we develop an optimization algorithm, nested stochastic variational inference, and a sampling algorithm, nested preconditioned stochastic gradient Langevin dynamics. A series of numerical and experimental examples verify and validate the proposed method.


---
# Multidimensional Deconvolution with Profiling

## 具有剖面的多维反卷积

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.10421

**Authors:** Huanbiao Zhu, Krish Desai, Mikael Kuusela, Vinicius Mikuni, Benjamin Nachman, Larry Wasserman

arXiv:2409.10421v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: In many experimental contexts, it is necessary to statistically remove the impact of instrumental effects in order to physically interpret measurements. This task has been extensively studied in particle physics, where the deconvolution task is called unfolding. A number of recent methods have shown how to perform high-dimensional, unbinned unfolding using machine learning. However, one of the assumptions in all of these methods is that the detector response is correctly modeled in the Monte Carlo simulation. In practice, the detector response depends on a number of nuisance parameters that can be constrained with data. We propose a new algorithm called Profile OmniFold, which works in a similar iterative manner as the OmniFold algorithm while being able to simultaneously profile the nuisance parameters. We illustrate the method with a Gaussian example as a proof of concept highlighting its promising capabilities.


---
# Scaffold Hopping with Generative Reinforcement Learning

## 基于生成式强化学习的支架跳跃

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-gd3j4?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Nadine, Schneider

Scaffold hopping – the design of novel scaffolds for existing lead candidates – is a multi-faceted and non-trivial task, for medicinal chemists and computational approaches alike. Generative reinforcement learning can iteratively optimize desirable properties of de novo designs, thereby offering opportunities to accelerate scaffold hopping. Current approaches confine the generation to a pre-defined molecular substructure (e.g., a linker or scaffold) for scaffold hopping. This confined generation may limit the exploration of the chemical space, and require intricate molecule (dis)assembly rules. In this work, we aim to advance reinforcement learning for scaffold hopping, by allowing ‘unconstrained’, full-molecule generation. This is achieved via the RuSH (Reinforcement Learning for Uconstrained Scaffold Hopping) approach. RuSH steers the generation towards the design of full molecules having a high three-dimensional and pharmacophore similarity to a reference molecule, but low scaffold similarity. In this first study, we show the flexibility and effectiveness of RuSH in exploring analogs of known scaffold-hops and in designing scaffold-hopping candidates that match known binding mechanisms. Finally, the comparison between RuSH and two established methods highlights the benefit of its unconstrained molecule generation to systematically achieve scaffold diversity while preserving optimal three-dimensional properties.


---
# Exploring the Intricacies of Glycerol Hydrodeoxygenation to Propanediol on Cu  surface: A Comprehensive Investigation with the Aid of Machine Learning Forcefield

## 探索Cu表面甘油加氢脱氧成丙二醇的复杂性: 借助机器学习力场的综合研究

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-34mq8-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Ansgar, Schaefer

The utilization of biomass to feedstock chemicals often relies on transforming hydroxyl-containing molecules. One such example is glycerol which can undergo a selective hydrodeoxygenation reaction to produce propanediol, a valuable chemical precursor. Hence, glycerol’s hydrodeoxygenation reaction combines immediate industrial application with foundation of fundamental research into the reaction class relevant for sustainable feedstock. Given the complex nature of large organic molecules, most modelling work in heterogeneous catalysis focusses on the reactivity of small (C1-2) organics exclusively. Glycerol, characterized by its C3-backbone, exhibits 75 distinct gas-phase conformers.[1] When considering its 11 reactive bonds (C-O, C-H and O-H), the modeling of glycerol's reactivity spans an extensive conformational and reactive space. High computational costs of Density Functional Theory simulations restrict exhaustive exploration of the factorial reaction space, leading to limited insights of the hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) mechanism and hindering rational catalyst design. Therefore, to date, there is no systematic study focusing on comprehensively sampling the energetics of surface conformers of glycerol and their reactivity. In this study, we employ a message-passing graph neural network architecture (MACE) to develop a machine-learned force-field (MLFF) potential, utilizing active learning to investigate the impact of conformational complexity on the reaction network of glycerol HDO on a Cu(111) surface. Following five iterations, our trained MLFF model accurately predicts surface bound structures with a root-mean-square accuracy of 0.04 eV (< 0.6 meV/atom total energy), essential to accurately determine conformational minima of 24 meta-stable and 26 intermediate states along seven competitive pathways. Conformational sampling uncovers the intricate nature of the complex energy landscape, where conformers with multiple shallow minima lead to non-trivial trends in the transition state energies connecting them.  Notably, the investigations predict lower activation barriers for O-H bond scissions of glycerol structures with α- and γ-backbone as compared to β-backbone. This is significant in case of scission of secondary O-H glycerol bonds where the activation barrier varies up to 0.44 eV depending upon the initial glycerol structure motif. Altogether, we identify dehydrogenation-dehydration-hydrogenation as dominant pathway resulting in PDO formation on the Cu(111) surface. The selectivity of glyceraldehyde towards C-H bond scission over C-OH bond scission explains higher selectivity of 1,2-PDO over 1,3-PDO.


---
# Machine learning-driven optimisation of continuous flow photoredox amine synthesis

## 机器学习驱动的连续流光氧化氧化胺合成优化

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-z03kg?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Frederic, Toussaint

Photoredox catalysis plays an important role in the synthesis of pharmaceutically relevant compounds, such as C(sp3)-rich tertiary amines. The difficulty of identifying underlying mechanistic models for such novel transformations, coupled with the large reaction space of this reaction class, mean that developing a robust process is challenging. In this work, we demonstrate the machine learning-driven optimisation of a photoredox tertiary amine synthesis with six continuous variables (e.g., concentration, temperature, residence time) and solvent choice as a discrete variable, in a semi-automated continuous flow setup. Starting with a large library of solvents, the workflow included multiple steps of a priori knowledge generation (e.g., solubility predictions) to narrow down the discrete space. A novel Bayesian optimisation algorithm, Nomadic Exploratory Multi-Objective optimisation (NEMO), was then deployed to identify and populate the Pareto front for the two reaction objectives - yield and reaction cost. Permutation feature importance and partial dependence plots identified the most important parameters for high yield, sig3, the asymmetry of the -profile for the discrete space, and equivalences of alkene and Hantzsch ester for the continuous variables. Catalyst loading and residence time were found to be correlated to absorbed photon equivalence, while catalyst loading was additionally the main parameter to drive cost. Even though productivity was not an optimisation objective, the best result achieved in flow was ~25 times higher than reactions in batch, which equals to ~12 g per day throughput.


---
# Relative humidity is inversely correlated with BPH/LUTS in middle-aged and elderly individuals: A 4-year longitudinal evidence from CHARLS

## 中老年人的相对湿度与BPH/LUTS呈负相关: 来自CHARLS的4年纵向证据

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5448177/latest

Objective: Relative humidity (RH) is a environmental factor influencing human health, yet its relationship with lower urinary tract symptoms associated with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH/LUTS) remains unverified.
Methods: This longitudinal study used data from the China Health and Retirement Longitudinal Study from 2011 to 2015. Participants without BPH/LUTS in 2011 were selected, with RH in the participants' living environment as the main exposure factor and new-onset BPH/LUTS as the outcome. Logistic regression risk models, restricted cubic spline (RCS) analysis, and subgroup analysis were used to examine the relationship between RH and BPH/LUTS. Participants were randomly divided into a training group and a testing group in a 7:3 ratio. Predictors were identified using the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression analysis and multivariate logistic regression analysis, followed by the development of a nomogram based on independent factors. The model was evaluated via area under receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves (AUC) for discrimination, calibration curves for accuracy, and DCA for clinical efficacy. Additionally, four machine learning model was constructed to enhance robustness and evaluate predictor importance.
Results: Among 2166 participants, 230 developed BPH/LUTS over the 4-year period. The BPH/LUTS group had lower RH levels than the non-BPH/LUTS group (67.95&plusmn;8.74 vs. 70.30&plusmn;8.11, p&amp;lt;0.001). All logistic regression models indicated a linear relationship between RH and BPH/LUT. RCS analysis revealed a significant decrease in BPH/LUTS incidence with rising RH (p&amp;lt;0.05), particularly when RH was below 71.29 (p&amp;lt;0.05). Subgroup analysis highlighted a stronger protective effect of RH against BPH/LUTS in urban residents and unmarried individuals (p for interaction &amp;lt; 0.05). The BPH/LUTS risk prediction model, established using LASSO and multivariable logistic regression, includes five independent factors: RH, age, cardiovascular disease, white blood cell, and C-reactive protein, with AUCs of 0.672 and 0.603 for training and testing groups. SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) analysis of four machine learning models affirmed RH as a significant negative predictor.
Conclusion: Although the predictive model has low utility, the negative correlation between RH and BPH/LUTS incidence in middle-aged and elderly people is confirmed, especially in urban and unmarried groups.


---
# Identification and Validation of a Novel Machine Learning Model for Predicting Severe Pelvic Endometriosis: A Retrospective Study

## 识别和验证用于预测严重盆腔子宫内膜异位症的新型机器学习模型: 一项回顾性研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5309546/latest

Background Severe endometriosis significantly impacts the quality of life, particularly in women of reproductive age. Though numerous studies have conducted predictive models with preoperative clinical data for endometriosis, most risk models focus on diagnosis rather than disease staging. This study aimed to explore potential factors for endometriosis severity and to develop a classification model to assess the accuracy of predicting the risk of severe endometriosis.Methods A total of 308 patients with endometriosis were retrospectively analyzed. The stage of endometriosis was classified according to the scoring system of the revised American Society for Reproductive Medicine (rASRM) system, through surgical visualization,which is the most widely used staging system globally. All patients underwent preoperative transabdominal and transvaginal ultrasound, based on four steps screening approach proposed by The International Deep Endometriosis Analysis (IDEA) consensus. We randomly divided these data into training and testing datasets at a ratio of 8:2. Least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) was performed to identify the potential risk factors for severe endometriosis. Then, we used 7 machine learning(ML) models to construct the predictive models. The area under the receiver-operating-characteristics curve (AUC) and accuracy were used to evaluate and determine the most effective model. Finally, SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) interpretation was calculated to evaluate each parameter's contribution to risk prediction.Results In this retrospective study, about 59.2% (183/308) of endometriosis patients were diagnosed with severe endometriosis. The predictors of severe endometriosis occurrence were found to be compliance of 18 factors such as the negative sliding sign, pelvic fluid, bilateral OE, serum CA125 level and severe dysmenorrhea according to LASSO. The random forest (RF) model performed best in discriminative ability among the 7 ML models. After reducing features according to feature importance rank, an explainable final RF model was established with 6 features. The final model could accurately predict severe endometriosis with the area under curve (AUC) of 0.744 and an accuracy of 0.667 in the test set. From the SHAP map, it was found that the negative sliding sign had the greatest impact on the diagnostic performance of the RF model.Conclusions We constructed a predictive model based on the ML model, and the RF model showed a better performance. we also provided a personalized risk assessment for the development of stage IV in endometriosis patients explained by SHAP. This can help clinicians to treat severe endometriosis.


---
# A machine learning model for predicting outcomes of MitraClip therapy

## 用于预测MitraClip治疗结果的机器学习模型

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5370589/latest

Background: Severe mitral regurgitation (MR) is a life-threatening mitral valve disease. The MitraClip intervention offers a percutaneous solution for patients who are unsuitable for surgery. However, limited information is available on outcomes post-MitraClip intervention. This study aims to develop an approach for predicting MR outcomes after MitraClip intervention using machine learning-enhanced echocardiography.Methods: We enrolled 164 patients with MR&amp;thinsp;&amp;ge;&amp;thinsp;3&amp;thinsp;+&amp;thinsp;degree who underwent MitraClip intervention at our institution between 2021 and 2024. Patients were monitored for approximately three years. The analysis included clinical data and echocardiographic parameters. Study endpoints were the recurrence of MR (2&amp;thinsp;+&amp;thinsp;or above) and major adverse events during follow-up. A total of 147 patients were randomly divided into training (80%) and testing (90%) sets. An additional 17 patients comprised the validation cohort.Results: The best-performing model for predicting clinical outcomes utilized 81 features in a logistic regression classifier. Using all 81 features in the logistic regression model, specificity increased to approximately 0.797 (95% confidence interval: 0.739&amp;thinsp;~&amp;thinsp;0.854) and sensitivity to about 0.459 (0.370&amp;thinsp;~&amp;thinsp;0.549), resulting in an overall accuracy of 0.688 (0.632&amp;thinsp;~&amp;thinsp;0.745) for the validation dataset. The best-performing model achieved a receiver operating characteristic area under the curve value of 0.773 in both the test and validation groups.Conclusions: Our machine learning model, leveraging echocardiographic characteristics, demonstrated superior predictive performance. This model effectively forecasts patient outcomes following MitraClip intervention, proving beneficial within a clinical setting.


---
# Comparative Study of AI Models for Pathological Fractures Identification in Spinal Metastases

## AI模型在脊柱转移瘤病理性骨折识别中的比较研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5364269/latest

Bone metastasis is a common complication in most malignant tumors, with the spine being a frequent site of metastasis. Cancerous spinal bone metastases can easily lead to pathological fractures, resulting in pain, neurological deficits, and a deterioration in the quality of life for patients. Therefore, early identification of pathological fractures in spinal metastases is crucial for improving the survival quality of patients with advanced cancer. This retrospective study collected CT imaging data from 140 patients with spinal bone metastases and resultant fractures, including 77 male and 63 female patients, with an age range of 34 to 79 years. The study began by preprocessing the CT images and had experienced radiologists annotate the fractures. Subsequently, deep learning-based models, single-stage YOLO-v5, YOLO-v7, and YOLO-v8, as well as the two-stage Faster R-CNN, were constructed and analyzed to detect pathological fractures caused by cancerous spinal metastases. Experimental results indicate that these AI models achieved favorable detection performance, with YOLO-v8 demonstrating the best performance on an independent testing set, achieving a precision of 0.999, a recall rate of 0.998, and a mean average precision (mAP) of 0.991. The vertebral fracture identification model based on YOLO-v8 can provide strong technical support for clinical diagnosis.


---
# Machine Learning-Based Prediction of Depression Risk in Patients with Multimorbidity: A Study Using NHANES Data from 2009-2016

## 基于机器学习的多发病患者抑郁风险预测: 一项使用2009-2016 NHANES数据的研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5430116/latest

OBJECTIVE Patients with multimorbidity are at a significantly higher risk of developing depression compared to those without multimorbidity, which can severely impair psychosocial functioning and decrease quality of life. However, no effective method currently exists to assess depression risk in these patients. In this study, we leveraged data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) database and applied machine learning (ML) techniques to construct a depression risk prediction model, aiming to predict the likelihood of depression in patients with multimorbidity.METHODS Data from the 2009&amp;ndash;2016 NHANES cycles were used, incorporating a wide range of demographic and clinical variables in the analysis. Various machine learning algorithms were evaluated for their predictive performance, and the CatBoost classifier, which demonstrated the best performance, was selected to build the prediction model. The model&amp;rsquo;s predictions were interpreted using SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) values, which ranked the importance of features and visualized the contribution of variables, such as socioeconomic status, biological factors, and lifestyle habits, in predicting depression among multimorbid patients.RESULTS The predictive performance of the model was robust for both overall depression and the binary classification of moderate to severe depression. For moderate to severe depression classification, the model achieved an accuracy of 0.9541, an AUC of 0.9903, and an F1 score of 0.954. The accuracy and recall were 0.9475 and 0.9607, respectively, with a kappa value of 0.9081 and an MCC of 0.9083. SHAP plots revealed that age and socioeconomic status were among the most important predictors for both depression and moderate to severe depression classifications.CONCLUSION This study developed a machine learning model to predict depression risk in patients with multimorbidity using NHANES data. The model demonstrated excellent predictive performance, and SHAP plots highlighted key predictors such as age and socioeconomic status, which significantly influenced the prediction of depression and its severity.


---
# Influencing Factors and Predictive Modeling of the Urban Heat Island in Guangzhou, China

## 广州城市热岛影响因素及预测模型研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5463284/latest

Constructing a predictive model for urban heat islands (UHIs) is essential for accurately assessing urban thermal environments and guiding sustainable development strategies. Previous studies typically modeled urban heat island based on the entire city, ignoring the differences of influencing factors between local areas. Therefore, this article explores the impact of influencing factors on local heat island based on Local Climate Zones (LCZ) zoning. We first prepared 21 features, and then created an urban heat island prediction model using machine learning technology it in each LCZ region. The prediction results were compared to those from Random Forest (RF), Gradient Boosting Trees (GBT), and Artificial Neural Networks (ANN). Experimental results indicate that the XGBoost model offers higher accuracy in predicting UHI, with accuracy exceeding 80%. The SHAP (SHapley Additive ExPlanations) analysis found significant elements impacting UHI formation in each zone, including impervious surface density (ISD), building density (BD), green space density (GSD), and the richness of vegetation. This study not only improves the accuracy of UHI predictions, but also provides the groundwork for future research into the dynamic planning of urban heat islands.


---
# All-cause mortality risk in elderly patients with femoral neck and intertrochanteric fractures: a predictive model based on machine learning

## 老年股骨颈骨折和股骨粗隆间骨折患者全因死亡风险: 基于机器学习的预测模型

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5598757/latest

Background With the aging of the population, the number of elderly patients with hip fracture is gradually increasing, and hip fracture is one of the fractures with the highest mortality rate. The aim of this study was to identify the influencing factors for all-cause mortality in elderly patients with intertrochanteric and femoral neck fractures and to construct predictive models.
Methods This study retrospectively collected elderly patients with intertrochanteric fracture and femoral neck fracture who underwent hip fracture surgery in the Third Hospital of Hebei Medical University from January 2020 to December 2022. Cox proportional hazards regression and Kaplan-Meier curves were used to explore the association between fracture type and mortality. Boruta algorithm was used to screen the risk factors related to death. Multivariate logistic regression was used to determine the independent risk factors, and a nomogram prediction model was established. The ROC curve, calibration curve and DCA decision curve were drawn by R language, and the prediction model was established by machine learning algorithm. The association between continuous variables and outcomes was assessed using restricted cubic splines (RCS).
Results A total of 1373 patients were enrolled in this study. Multivariate COX regression analysis showed that fracture type was independently associated with all-cause mortality. K-M survival curve showed that the mortality of patients with intertrochanteric fracture was higher than that of patients with femoral neck fracture. Compared with patients with femoral neck fracture, patients with intertrochanteric fracture have a higher incidence of perioperative DVT, anemia and delirium. There were 6 variables that remained in the model for intertrochanteric fractures: age (HR 1.048, 95% CI 1.014&ndash;1.083, p = 0.006), AMI (HR 4.631, 95% CI 2.190&ndash;9.795, P&amp;lt;0.001), COPD (HR 3.818, 95% CI 1.516&ndash;9.614, P= 0.004), CHF (HR 2.743, 95% CI 1.510&ndash;4.981, P= 0.001), NOAF (HR 1.748, 95% CI 1.033&ndash;2.956, P= 0.037), FBG (HR 1.116, 95% CI 1.026&ndash;1.215, P= 0.011). There were 3 variables that remained in the model for femoral neck fractures: age (HR 1.145, 95% CI 1.097&ndash;1.196, P&amp;lt;0.001), HbA1c (HR 1.264, 95% CI 1.088&ndash;1.468, P=0.002), BNP (HR 1.001, 95% CI 1.000&ndash;1.002, P= 0.019). The experimental results showed that the model has good identification ability, calibration effect and clinical application value.
Conclusion Intertrochanteric fracture is an independent risk factor for all-cause mortality in elderly patients with hip fracture, and the prognosis is poor. By constructing a prognostic model based on machine learning, the risk factors of mortality in patients with intertrochanteric fracture and femoral neck fracture can be effectively identified, and the perioperative management can be strengthened to develop personalized treatment strategies.


---
# Integration of RNA Editing with Multiomics Data Improves Machine Learning Models for Predicting Drug Responses in Breast Cancer Patients

## RNA编辑与多组学数据的整合改善了预测乳腺癌患者药物反应的机器学习模型

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5604105/latest

Background: The integration of conventional omics data such as genomics and transcriptomics data into artificial intelligence models has advanced significantly in recent years; however, their low applicability in clinical contexts, due to the high complexity of models, has been limited in their direct use inpatients. We integrated classic omics, including DNA mutation and RNA gene expression, added a novel focus on promising omics methods based on A&amp;gt;I(G) RNA editing, and developed a drug response prediction model.
Methods: We analyzed 104 patients from the Breast Cancer Genome-Guided Therapy Study (NCT02022202). This study was used to train (70%) with 10-fold cross-validation and test (30%) the drug response classification models. We assess the performance of the random forest (RF), generalized linear model (GLM), and support vector machine (SVM) with the Caret package in classifying therapy response via various combinations of clinical data, tumoral and germline mutation data, gene expression data, and RNA editing data via the LASSO and PCA strategies.
Results: First, we characterized the cohort on the basis of clinical data, mutation landscapes, differential gene expression, and RNAediting sites in 69 nonresponders and 35 responders to therapy. Second, regarding the prediction models, we demonstrated that RNA editing data improved or maintained the performance of the RF model for predicting drug response across all combinations. To select the final model, we compared the F1 score between models with different data combinations, highlighting an F1 score of 0.96 (95% CI: 0.957--0.961) and an AUC of 0.922, using LASSO for feature selection. Finally, we developed a nonresponse risk score on the basis of features that contributed to the selected model, focusing on three RNA-edited sites in the genes KDM4B, miRNA200/TTLL10-AS1, and BEST1. The score was created to facilitate the clinical translation of our findings, presenting a probability of therapy response according to RNA editing site patterns.
Conclusion: Our study highlights the potential of RNA editing as a valuable addition to predictive modeling for drug response in patients with breast cancer. The nonresponse risk score could represent a tool for clinical translation, offering a probability-based assessment of therapy response. These findings suggest that incorporating RNA editing into predictive models could enhance personalized treatment strategies and improve decision-making in oncology.


---
# Whole Exome Sequencing in 11 Iranian Patients Expands the Mutational and Clinical Spectrum of Bardet- Biedl Syndrome

## 11名伊朗患者的全外显子组测序扩大了bardet-biedl综合征的突变和临床范围

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5232598/latest

Objective: Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS, OMIM 209900) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by a broad spectrum of clinical features including renal anomalies, learning disabilities, postaxial polydactyly, retinal dystrophy, obesity, and hypogenitalism. BBS is a heterogeneous syndrome, both genetically and clinically. To date, genetic variants in more than 28 genes have been associated with this syndrome and its subtypes. Most previous studies on BBS have failed to show clear genotype&ndash;phenotype correlations.
Design and Methods: In order to investigate the spectrum of genetic variation among Iranian BBS patients, 11 subjects from 9 families with clinically diagnosed BBS were included in this study. Following informed consent, we applied whole exome sequencing (WES) to the proband and their parents. We next performed Sanger sequencing to validate the identified variants.
Results: WES successfully identified three variants in the BBS9 gene: c.2014C&amp;gt;T, c.1789+1 G&amp;gt;A, and a novel deletion of exon 16. Two novel variants were identified in the BBS7gene: c.880G&amp;gt;C and c.719G&amp;gt;A. In addition, one novel variant was found in each of the CEP290 gene (c.5159C&amp;gt;G), TTC8 gene (c.462_465del), and MKKS gene (c.515_516delCT). One previously reported variant was also detected in the BBS10 gene (c.728_731del). Among the clinical manifestations observed, obesity and polydactyly were the most common findings.
Conclusions: Our findings further support the high heterogeneity of BBS: by discovering six novel variants, we expand the mutational spectrum of BBS-related genes and contribute to the understanding of this multisystem disease.


---
# Advanced Machine Learning Evaluation for Predicting Bubble and Slug Length and Assessing Flow Stability in L and T-type Taylor Flow Channels

## 先进的机器学习评估，用于预测气泡和段塞长度并评估L型和T型泰勒流道中的流动稳定性

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5423359/latest

Bubble and slug length are prominent features that define Taylor flow. A classical parametric model based on continuity equation, mass transfer, and dimensionless numbers provides validation in limited conditions. This study, with its focus on searching for proper bubble and slug length models for all conditions based on machine learning. Bubble and slug lengths were provided by image processing of syn gas-gas oil flow visualization in L and T channels. As bubble and slug length stability and flow homogeneity were evaluated from this visualization, a new model based on machine learning regression was suggested according to prediction performance. The new models were flexible and non-parametric, Gaussian Process Regression. The suggested models were matching with taylor flow nature. This study allows bubble and slug length expression with a nonparametric model and provides bubble and slug length prediction machine learning for new technologies.


---
# Influence of fuzzified dataset on classification and prediction of plant types - A case study

## 模糊化数据集对植物类型分类和预测的影响-案例研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5251674/latest

This research explores the use of fuzzification to improve the classification and prediction of plant types based on environmental and soil parameters. Fuzzification, a process that transforms numerical features into fuzzy sets, is used to handle the inherent uncertainty discovered in parameters such as soil pH, moisture, nutrients and temperature. The dataset obtained from Kaggle consists of 9 features and 10 plant types. Several Machine Learning models such as Na&amp;iuml;ve Bayes, Support Vector Machine, Random Forest, K-Nearest Neighbour, Decision tree, XGBoost and LightGBM are employed to classify and predict plants based on their environmental and soil features. These models are applied to fuzzified and non-fuzzified datasets for comparative performance analysis. The hyperparameters of each model is fine-tuned using the Bayesian optimization. SVM and KNN significantly benefit from the fuzzified dataset demonstrating the effect of fuzzification. XGBoost achieves an accuracy of 91.37% and AUC of 99.41% on the fuzzified dataset, while with the non-fuzzified dataset, accuracy and AUC of 91.34% and 99.42% respectively is found to be achieved. LightGBM shows an accuracy of 91.35% and AUC of 99.41% on the fuzzified dataset and 91.27% accuracy and AUC of 99.40% on the non-fuzzified dataset. From this research work, fuzzification is observed to improve the ability of certain models to manage complex data, leading to more accurate classification. These findings aid in the enhancement of more reliable and robust machine learning models for agricultural applications, particularly in prediction and management based on uncertain environmental and soil parameters.


---
# Advanced Predictive Modeling of Type 2 Diabetes Using XGBoost and Explainable AI

## 使用XGBoost和可解释的AI对2型糖尿病进行高级预测建模

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5337562/latest

The increasing prevalence of Type 2 diabetes (D.M. II) globally poses significant public health challenges, necessitating the development of effective predictive models for accurate prediction. This study aims to apply machine learning (ML) algorithms and explainable artificial intelligence (XAI) techniques to predict the risk of D.M. II using health data from the Dena Cohort in Yasuj, Iran. Data was collected from 3,203 individuals aged 35 to 70, incorporating various demographic, clinical, and lifestyle features. Two ML models, XGBoost and CatBoost, were developed and evaluated for their predictive accuracy. Data preprocessing involved handling missing values, normalization of continuous variables, and addressing class imbalance through the Synthetic Minority Over-sampling Technique (SMOTE). The performance of the models was assessed using accuracy, F1-score, and area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC). The values of SHAP (Shapley Additive Explanations) were utilized to explain model predictions and enhance interpretability. The XGBoost model demonstrated superior performance, achieving an accuracy of 96.07% and an AUC of 99.29%. Key predictive factors identified included fasting blood sugar, fatty liver, urolithiasis, age, and lifestyle factors like energy drink consumption and television watching. The application of SHAP provided valuable insights into the contribution of individual features to the model&amp;rsquo;s predictions, enhancing transparency and understanding for healthcare professionals. This study's findings highlight the potential of ML and XAI in improving the prediction of D.M. II. By identifying critical risk factors, the developed predictive models can support personalized healthcare interventions, improving patient outcomes and reducing healthcare burdens associated with diabetes. This research advocates integrating advanced predictive analytics into clinical practice to enhance diabetes prediction strategies.


---
# B lymphocyte subset-based stratification in primary Sj&ouml;gren's syndrome: implications for lymphoma risk and personalized treatment

## 原发性干燥综合征中基于B淋巴细胞亚群的分层: 对淋巴瘤风险和个性化治疗的影响

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5415189/latest

Objective This study aimed to perform a detailed stratification analysis of B lymphocyte subsets in patients with primary Sj&amp;ouml;gren's syndrome (pSS) and to investigate their associations with lymphoma risk, clinical phenotypes, and disease activity.Methods In this retrospective study, we analyzed data from 137 patients with pSS. We employed machine learning approaches, specifically principal component analysis (PCA) and k-means clustering, to examine B lymphocyte subset distributions from flow cytometry data and immunoglobulin IgG and complement (C3, C4) levels. The optimal cluster number was determined using the Elbow Method in R software. Based on these 10 variables, patients were categorized into distinct subgroups. We then comprehensively compared clinical characteristics, laboratory parameters, and disease activity indices among these identified subgroups.Results Four distinct subgroups were identified. Cluster A exhibited a significantly higher lymphoma incidence rate of 20%, compared to 3.39% in Cluster B and 0% in Clusters C and D (p&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.007). Cluster A also had the highest percentage of double-negative B cells (32.26&amp;thinsp;&amp;plusmn;&amp;thinsp;17.96%) and plasma cells (2.02&amp;thinsp;&amp;plusmn;&amp;thinsp;1.92%). ESSDAI scores indicated that disease activity was highest in Cluster A (9.00, 6.00&amp;ndash;20.00), followed by Clusters B (7.00, 3.50&amp;ndash;14.00), C (6.00, 1.25&amp;ndash;17.50), and D (5.00, 1.50&amp;ndash;9.00), respectively.Conclusion  This innovative stratification method revealed the critical role of B cell subset imbalance in the pathogenesis of pSS and provided new evidence for predicting lymphoma risk and guiding personalized treatment.


---
# Development and Validation of a Machine-Learning Model for Predicting Prognosis in Critically Ill Patients Undergoing Major Surgery

## 用于预测接受大手术的重症患者预后的机器学习模型的开发和验证

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5411439/latest

Background Major surgery can result in elevated mortality rates, poorer prognoses, and extended hospital stays. This study sought to develop and validate an effective machine-learning model capable of accurately forecasting outcomes in critically ill patients who have undergone major surgery.Methods Using the publicly accessible Medical Information Mart for Intensive Care (MIMIC)-IV database, we developed and validated multiple machine-learning models to predict postoperative outcomes in critically ill patients who had at least an overnight ICU stay after major surgery. Seven predictive models were tested to forecast prognosis, with the highest-performing model selected based on its accuracy and the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC).  An advanced model, eXtremely Gradient Boosting (XGBoost), was created using all variables, followed by a streamlined model built from 10 features chosen for their importance and clinical applicability. The performance of both models was assessed using Decision Curve Analysis (DCA), while survival analyses distinguished high- and low-risk groups within the internal validation sets.Results A cohort of 2,335 critically ill patients who had undergone major surgery were included in the MIMIC-IV cohorts. The full XGBoost model achieved an accuracy of 80.6% and an AUC of 0.828, indicating high predictive power. A more practical selection model with 10 features demonstrated a slightly lower AUC of 0.824 (95% CI: 0.762&amp;ndash;0.886) but offered advantages in clinical usability. The ten key features were identified based on their SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) values, which included the Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI), Simplified Acute Physiology Score (SAPS)-II, Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score, mechanical ventilation, ARDS and sepsis complications, blood urea nitrogen (BUN) levels, estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), respiratory rate, and marital status. Additionally, survival curves showed a clear distinction between high- and low-risk groups based on predictions from both the full and selection XGBoost models.Conclusions This study developed two XGBoost model variants that outperform other ICU predictive methods for forecasting the prognosis of patients undergoing major surgery. These models have the potential to assist healthcare providers in making more informed decisions, thereby improving clinical outcomes in the ICU setting.


---
# Unlocking Magnetic Resonance Images Potential: Innovative Brain Tumor Classification via Transfer Learning and Convolutional Neural Networks&nbsp;

## 解锁磁共振图像潜力: 通过转移学习和卷积神经网络进行创新的脑肿瘤分类

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5439991/latest

Background and Objectives: Recent advancements in artificial intelligence (AI), particularly through convolutional neural networks (CNNs), have led to significant progress in tumor detection and classification systems. This study aims to train and evaluate the performance of four distinct CNN models for the 4-way classification of glioma, meningioma, pituitary tumors, and non-tumor magnetic resonance images (MRI).Methods Data augmentation techniques were applied to MRI slices from the Figshare, Br35H, and Brain Tumor Classification datasets to enhance the generalizability of the models and mitigate overfitting, effectively increasing the sample size. Four pre-trained CNN models including VGG-16, AlexNet, GoogleNet, and ResNet-50 were fine-tuned for brain tumor classification.Results Transfer learning proved highly effective for classifying tumor types and identifying non-tumor images. The performance metrics showed that AlexNet achieved an accuracy of 97.33%, ResNet-50 reached 98.03%, GoogLeNet attained 98.09%, and VGG-16 matched AlexNet with 97.33% accuracy on the test dataset. Among the models, GoogleNet achieved the highest accuracy with fewer parameters, while ResNet-50 demonstrated the highest sensitivity and F1-Score. All models performed exceptionally well, with sensitivity and precision exceeding 95%.Conclusion The research highlights the effectiveness of deep learning techniques, especially CNNs and transfer learning, in classifying brain tumor types using MR images. The study emphasizes that merely increasing model parameters does not guarantee better performance, underscoring the need for fine-tuning models originally trained on ImageNet for medical imaging tasks. These findings contribute to advancing automated medical image analysis, potentially leading to earlier brain tumor diagnosis and improved patient outcomes.


---
# Integrating Anisotropic Heat Flow and Transformer Encoders in Convolutional Neural Network for Skin Cancer Classification

## 在卷积神经网络中集成各向异性热流和变压器编码器用于皮肤癌分类

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5442690/latest

The early detection and classification of skin cancer are pivotal in improving patient outcomes and reducing healthcare burdens. However, traditional deep learning models in dermatological diagnostics often struggle with the nuanced differentiation of skin lesions. This paper introduces a novel approach, integrating an Advanced Heat Flow Layer into deep learning architectures for skin cancer classification, this method is centered on the principles of anisotropic diffusion, distinguishing itself from conventional image processing techniques by selectively smoothing image areas while preserving critical edge details, essential for accurate lesion identification. In our research, we utilized the Ham10000 dataset, enriched with data augmentation to simulate real-world variability, we conducted a comprehensive comparison of our model, featuring the Advanced Heat Flow Layer, against several benchmark deep learning models, including Sobel Edge Detection Layer. Our model, integrated with various layers of DenseNet121, consistently outperformed these benchmarks across key metrics such as accuracy, precision, recall, F1 score, and AUC, particularly with augmented data, this indicates a significant enhancement in the model's ability to generalize and maintain critical diagnostic features under diverse conditions. Our code is available at,   https://github.com/sanadv/SkinCancerClassificationModels/blob/main/Models.ipynb


---
# Prediction of regional lymph node status in rectal cancer with radiomics features based on deep learning segmented tumor area

## 基于深度学习分割肿瘤面积的影像组学特征预测直肠癌区域淋巴结状态

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5416953/latest

Background: To predict regional lymph node metastasis (LNM) in rectal cancer (RC) using deep learning-based tumor auto-segmentation and radiomics.
Methods: This single-center research retrospectively analyzed 282 patients with RC from two MR vendors. The deep learning-based auto-segmentation models were constructed on T2WI and DWI with 3D U-Net, 3D V-Net, and nnU-Net v2 and assessed with the Dice Similarity Coefficient (DSC). Radiomics features on manual-based VOI (MbV) and deep learning-based VOI (DbV, with the highest DSC) were extracted respectively. After feature normalization and selection, five classifiers were used for radiomics model building and then for LNM prediction. The optimal model was selected using a 5-fold cross-validation strategy and evaluated with area under the curve (AUC), accuracy, specificity, and sensitivity.
Results: The DSC of the nnU-Net v2 was significantly higher than that of the 3D U-Net and 3D V-Net (T2WI: 0.886 vs 0.548 vs 0.616, p &amp;lt; 0.001; DWI: 0.906 vs 0.583 vs 0.433, p &amp;lt; 0.001; test set). The AUC of DbV based-radiomics models (0.700 for T2WI, 0.667 for DWI, and 0.800 for T2WI + DWI) were comparable to those of the corresponding MbV-based radiomics models (0.633 for T2WI, p = 0.638; 0.700 for DWI, p = 0.544; and 0.833 for T2WI + DWI, p = 0.248) in LNM prediction.
Conclusions: Radiomics features of T2WI and DWI based on nnU-net v2 segmented tumor area showed a reliable performance in predicting LNM in RC.


---
# An Intelligent CDS (Clinical Decision Support) Framework using Machine Learning Algorithms for Parkinson Disease Detection

## 使用机器学习算法进行帕金森病检测的智能CDS (临床决策支持) 框架

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5418435/latest

Parkinson&amp;rsquo;s disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the gradual onset of symptoms, complicating early diagnosis. Traditionally, neurologists diagnose Parkinson&amp;rsquo;s through patient medical history reviews and repeated scans, while body movement analysts focus on evaluating physical movements. Recent studies suggest that speech alterations can serve as quantifiable markers for early Parkinson&amp;rsquo;s detection. This paper introduces a novel and robust framework that leverages the Multiple Feature Evaluation Approach (MFEA), the Synthetic Minority Oversampling Technique (SMOTE), and Neural Networks for the early detection of Parkinson&amp;rsquo;s disease. A new algorithm, termed Multi-Agent MFEA, is proposed within this framework, which is further developed into an intelligent system called iCDS (Intelligent Clinical Decision Support). The effectiveness of this system is validated using a speech dataset from the UCI Machine Learning Repository. Comparative analysis shows that the iCDS framework, equipped with MFEA, outperforms traditional feature selection methods (such as Mutual Information Gain and Recursive Feature Elimination) and classifiers (including Naive Bayes, KNN, and SVM) in multiple aspects. The study&amp;rsquo;s findings have the potential to aid both patients and medical professionals in making timely decisions and improving medical support. The development of Clinical Decision Support (CDS) systems has made early detection of Parkinson&amp;rsquo;s disease more feasible, and this research substantiates that advancement.


---
# Inflections in Learner Sentiment on the Culture of Surgery

## 学习者对手术文化的情感变化

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5363580/latest

Purpose
Students&rsquo; preconceptions about workplace culture may influence the learning environment in the Surgery clerkship; however, the time at which students develop these sentiments is unclear. We aimed to identify inflections in students&rsquo; preconceptions of the culture of surgery, which are relevant to the timing of interventions targeting the surgical learning environment.
Methods
Cohorts of students at multiple levels received surveys between July 2021-September 2023 soliciting words associated with, &ldquo;Culture of Surgery.&rdquo; We analyzed entries using a Bag-of-Words method, with each word representing a unique token, and determined the most prevalent words. In sentiment analysis, 2 raters independently assigned a positive, neutral, or negative valence to each word, and valence agreement was assessed. We compared proportions of valences and rater agreement among cohorts with Fisher exact tests and determined inflections in sentiment along the learning continuum.
Results
Participants included 50 undergraduates, 111 first-year medical students, and 216 clerks beginning Surgery rotations. &ldquo;Intense&rdquo; was the most common word associated with &ldquo;Culture of Surgery&rdquo; at all levels. Sentiment analysis comparing pre-medical undergraduate students and first-year medical students revealed profound differences in proportions of words with positive (58.9 vs 13.3%, p&amp;lt;0.001) and negative (20.0 vs 57.0%, p&amp;lt;0.001) valences. Non-pre-medical undergraduate students&rsquo; word valences were even more frequently positive (71.6%) and less frequently negative (7.1%). Sentiments did not change appreciably among medical students at all levels. The range of rater agreements was 62.3-78.6%.
Conclusions
Prior to medical school, students have predominantly positive sentiments about surgical culture, while negative preconceptions predominate early in medical school and persist into clerkships. Interventions should be designed to encourage surgeons&rsquo; contributions to all aspects of undergraduate medical education culture.


---
# The predictive value of radiomics and deep learning for synchronous distant metastasis in clear cell renal cell carcinoma

## 影像组学和深度学习对肾透明细胞癌同步远处转移的预测价值

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5368462/latest

Objective The objective of this research was to devise and authenticate a predictive model that employs CT radiomics and deep learning methodologies for the accurate prediction of synchronous distant metastasis (SDM) in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC).Methods A total of 143 ccRCC patients were included in the training cohort, and 62 ccRCC patients were included in the validation cohort. The CT images from all patients were normalized, and the tumor regions were manually segmented via ITK-SNAP software. Radiomic features were extracted via the FAE toolkit. The least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) algorithm was employed to select features and build various machine learning models. Additionally, the largest cross-section of the tumor was cropped to train the deep learning model. Multiple deep learning models were trained to predict SDM in ccRCC patients. The results of the best machine learning model were then fused with those of the deep learning model to create a combined model.Results Of the 944 radiomic features identified, 15 were closely associated with SDM. With these 15 features, the support vector machine (SVM) model emerged as the most effective, demonstrating areas under the curve (AUC) of 0.860 and 0.813 in the training and validation cohort, respectively. Among the deep learning models, ResNet101 performed optimally, achieving AUC of 0.815 and 0.743 in the training and validation cohort, respectively. The combined model yielded an AUC of 0.863. Decision curve analysis suggested that the combined model offers superior clinical applicability.Conclusion This model, which combines radiomics and deep learning, has substantial potential the prediction of SDM in patients with ccRCC. This study is anticipated to bolster clinical decision-making processes and enhance the prognostic outcomes for individuals diagnosed with ccRCC.


---
# Australian and New Zealand medical students&rsquo; confidence and preparedness to prescribe

## 澳大利亚和新西兰的医学生对处方的信心和准备

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5406785/latest

Background
Writing a medication prescription is an expected competency junior doctors internationally feel underprepared to complete. Providing clarity in medical prescribing education standards and assessment criteria may address the lack of preparedness.
The primary aim of this study is to understand Australian and New Zealand (NZ) final-year medical students&rsquo; confidence and preparedness to write a discharge or outpatient prescription. Secondarily, identify by whom, when, and using what modalities education on prescription writing should be provided.
Methods
This quantitative analytical cross-sectional survey was developed through REDCap&reg;. Ethical approval allowed email survey distribution to participants from June to December 2022. Data was analysed using IBM SPSS v29. Likert-scale responses were cross tabulated against participant confidence and preparedness to handwrite and electronically write discharge or outpatient prescriptions. Mixed model logistic regression analyses determined the preferred education modalities, educator, and time during medical degree to receive prescription writing education.
Results
Final-year medical students from Australia (n=123) and NZ (n=51) completed the survey. Participants felt their university degree didn&rsquo;t increase their confidence or preparedness to electronically or hand-write prescriptions. Learning on placement was significantly most desirable in comparison to other options. Majority of participants selected pharmacists as the educator and their final year as an ideal time during their medical degree to receive education on prescription writing.
Discussion
The absence of mandated education and assessment on the skill to prescribe was evident. The results showed aself-acknowledgement of under-preparedness and confidence to write medication prescriptions. This suggests a need for further education and specific assessment standards on the skill of prescription writing.
Conclusion
Pharmacist-led mixed-methods education model during the final year of medical education is suggested to address gaps in education and assessment on prescription writing. Providing further education on the skill of prescription writing before graduation may reduce prescribing errors made as junior doctors.


---
# Breast-NEOprAIdict: a deep learning solution for predicting pathological complete response on biopsies of breast cancer patients treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy

## 乳腺癌-新辅助化疗: 预测新辅助化疗治疗的乳腺癌患者活检病理完全缓解的深度学习解决方案

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5327033/latest

In precision medicine, predicting tumor chemosensitivity is crucial for providing optimal treatment to cancer patients. This study introduces Breast-NEOprAIdict, a deep learning model aimed at predicting pathological complete response (pCR) in early breast cancer (eBC) patients treated with standard neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC). This prediction is based on an analysis of the initial tumor diagnostic biopsy. We used two extensive cohorts (total n&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;1140 patients) spanning various molecular subtypes of eBC (HER2-amplified (HER2+), estrogen-receptor positive/HER2 non amplified (ER+/HER2-), and triple-negative (TN) tumors): the PRIMUNEO prospective cohort (n&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;500) for training and internal validation and the CGFL Breast Cancer Neoadjuvant database (n&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;640) for external validation. Breast-NEOprAIdict demonstrated good performance on the external validation dataset for HER2&amp;thinsp;+&amp;thinsp;tumors (Area Under the Curve (AUC): 0.652 (P&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.001), Odds Ratio (OR): 2.42 (P&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.0131)), ER+/HER2- tumors (AUC: 0.814 (P&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.003), OR: 20.56 (P&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.00413)) and TN tumors (AUC: 0.677 (P&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.001), OR: 3.44 (P&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.00373)) compared to standard clinicopathological features. We also evaluated the robustness of our algorithm through testing on several scanned sections per patient. Breast-NEOprAIdict exhibited strong consistency in the external validation cohort, with a Pearson correlation coefficient of 0.933 (P&amp;thinsp;&amp;lt;&amp;thinsp;0.001) for HER2+, 0.932 (P&amp;thinsp;&amp;lt;&amp;thinsp;0.001) for ER+/HER2- tumors, and 0.939 (P&amp;thinsp;&amp;lt;&amp;thinsp;0.001) for TN. Breast-NEOprAIdict is a new tool for identifying eBC that are differentially sensitive to standard NAC and could help to select the most appropriate treatment strategy in HER2+, ER+/HER2- and TN eBC.


---
# Prediction of Epileptic Seizure Using Deep Learning Techniques

## 基于深度学习技术的癫痫发作预测

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5313473/latest

Epilepsy, a widespread neurological condition affecting more than 65&amp;nbsp;million individuals globally, poses a significant challenge for over 30% of cases resistant to conventional medical or surgical interventions. This addresses the need for effective seizure prediction to counter the consequences of epilepsy through early detection of seizures. They occur in four primary states: the preictal phase, signaling occurrence of seizures earlier; ictal, the active seizure period; postictal state ensues after the seizure; and interictal, the baseline between seizure. In this proposal, a novel deep learning based epileptic seizure prediction approach using EEG signals has been introduced. It begins with the preprocessing of scalp EEG signals, followed by the automated extraction of features utilizing convolutional neural networks. Utilizing Bi-LSTM facilitates the classification process in the proposed methodology. The classification process is facilitated by Bi-LSTM, achieving a remarkable accuracy of 99.61% and specificity of 0.9961. This approach holds promise for improving quality of life by effectively mitigating the impact of seizures through timely intervention and accurate classification.


---
# Step to it &ndash; can physical activity improve kids&rsquo; cognition? A six-month longitudinal study

## 一步一步-体育活动可以改善孩子的认知吗？为期六个月的纵向研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5425164/latest

Background Identifying the relationships among physical activity, cognition, and academic performance in children is important for targeted public health and education initiatives. However, the majority of research has been cross-sectional in nature; we have a limited understanding of the causal direction of these associations. Therefore, aim of this study was to utilise longitudinal data to explore causal relationships among physical activity, cognition and academic performance in elementary school children.Methods Data were sourced from 675 New Zealand children aged 5&amp;ndash;11 years. Weekday home, weekday school, and weekend physical activity was measured by multiple pedometer step readings, cognition by four measures from the CNS Vital Signs assessment, and academic performance from the New Zealand Ministry of Education Assessment Tools for Teaching and Learning (asTTle) reading and maths scores. Measures were taken at baseline, two months, and six-month intervals. Data were analysed for 632 students identified with data for at least half of the 27 variables. A generalised linear mixed model was used to investigate changes in physical activity, cognition and academic performance over those three time periods while adjusting for gender, school, age, and socioeconomic status.Results No significant relationships were identified between physical activity and three of the cognitive domains. However, significant, positive relationships were observed between physical activity change at two-months and (1) composite memory change at six-months, (2) maths proficiency change at two-months, and (3) math proficiency change at six-months. Regression coefficients suggest that a child who doubles step count - a 100% increase in PA - will affect a 3.7% improvement in maths proficiency after two months, and after six months affect a 2.6% improvement in maths proficiency and a 4.7% improvement in composite memory.Conclusions This six-month longitudinal analysis identified that an increase physical activity led to small but significant improvements in composite memory and maths proficiency. The small associations suggest that substantial improvements in PA would be required to generate meaningful improvements in cognition and academic achievement. However, timeframes longer than six-months are recommended to identify long-term changes.


---
# Explainable SHAP-XGBoost models for pressure ulcers among patients requiring with mechanical ventilation in intensive care unit

## 重症监护病房需要机械通气的患者中压疮的可解释SHAP-XGBoost模型

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5322280/latest

Background Pressure ulcers are significant concern for ICU patients on mechanical ventilation. Early prediction is crucial for enhancing patient outcomes and reducing healthcare costs. This study aims to develop a predictive model using machine learning techniques, specifically XGBoost combined with SHAP, to identify key risk factors of pressure ulcers in this population.Methods Utilizing the MIMIC-IV 2.2 database, we included a cohort of 29,448 mechanically ventilated patients in ICU intensive unit. These patients were divided into a training set (20,614 patients, 70%) and an internal validation set (8,834 patients, 30%). Of these, 2,052 patients developed pressure ulcers. We applied the XGBoost algorithm to build the predictive model and used SHAP analysis to identify the top ten factors influencing pressure ulcer development: 'sepsis', 'age', 'the count of platelet', 'length of ICU stay', 'PaO2/FiO2 ratio', 'hemoglobin concentration', 'admission type', 'renal disease', 'albumin concentration', and 'ethnicity'.Results The predictive model achieved an area under the ROC curve (AUC) of 0.797 (95% CI: 0.786&amp;ndash;0.808) in the training set and 0.739 (95% CI: 0.721&amp;ndash;0.758) in the validation set. Calibration curves demonstrated good fit, and the decision curve analysis indicated clinical utility.Conclusion This study successfully developed a machine learning model that accurately predicts the risk of pressure ulcers in ICU patients with mechanical ventilation. This model could serve as a valuable tool for guiding early interventions, ultimately reducing the incidence of pressure ulcers in this vulnerable population. The integration of SHAP analysis offers insights into the most critical factors.


---
# A Machine Learning Approach to Aids Clinical Trials Group (Actg) Study

## 艾滋病临床试验小组 (Actg) 研究的机器学习方法

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5247011/latest

AIDS - Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome, is a major health concern, with an estimated 39&amp;nbsp;million people living with HIV worldwide. [1] Predicting the risk of mortality in AIDS patients is important for optimizing treatment strategies and improving the outcomes. The choice of Antiretroviral Therapy (ART), whether monotherapy or combined therapy, plays a crucial role in optimizing the treatment strategies. This study aims to apply machine learning techniques to predict patient mortality within a certain window of time using the AIDS Clinical Trials Group (ACTG) Study 175 Dataset. The results demonstrate the role of Data Science and the potential of machine learning models to forecast mortality, providing valuable insights for improving the treatment.


---
# Supervised and unsupervised analysis of feature drift in a new type of detector

## 新型检测器中特征漂移的监督和无监督分析

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5642665/latest

Data stream analysis is a rapidly growing field driven by the prevalence of massive, dynamic datasets across various domains, including science, medicine, biometrics, and technology. Many data streams are inherently non-homogeneous, highly variable over time, and non-stationary, presenting unique challenges for machine learning applications. This paper addresses the underexplored phenomenon of feature drift&mdash;a type of drift where the importance of certain features diminishes while others become more relevant for predictive modeling. Feature drift necessitates continuous monitoring and adaptation of classification models to ensure high-quality predictions. We propose a novel feature drift detection algorithm that operates flexibly in supervised and unsupervised modes. The algorithm is evaluated using synthetic and real-world datasets, demonstrating its ability to effectively detect and adapt to feature drift. Additionally, we investigate various drift scenarios and assess the algorithm&rsquo;s performance across multiple features. Comparative analyses with state-of-the-art methods highlight the strengths of our approach in maintaining robust classification accuracy and reducing false detections. This research contributes to advancing adaptive machine-learning techniques for dynamic, real-world environments.


---
# Overcoming data scarcity in life-threatening arrhythmia detection: A deep learning framework for life-saving interventions

## 克服威胁生命的心律失常检测中的数据稀缺: 用于挽救生命干预的深度学习框架

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5465016/latest

Life-threatening arrhythmias (LTAs) are a leading cause of death worldwide. Enhancing LTA detection in wearable monitoring systems is of great significance. We present a powerful deep-learning (DL) algorithm for detecting LTAs from single-lead ECGs, intended for application in out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA). To address the challenge of limited labeled LTA data, a transfer learning approach is proposed. A DL model is pre-trained on a massive dataset (72'952 recordings) for rhythm classification and then fine-tuned on the target dataset with LTA events (102 recordings). The resulting model achieves a sensitivity of 92.68% and a specificity of 99.48%, with a granularity of 1.28 seconds, in detecting LTAs. Additionally, a confidence estimation procedure is introduced, to enable emergency service pre-alerts in case of low-confidence detections. Our study explores the impact of transfer learning in overcoming data scarcity issues, advancing LTA detection in wearable monitoring systems, and supporting rapid, life-saving interventions in OHCA emergencies.


---
# Soft Fuzzy Reinforcement Neural Network PD Controller

## 软模糊强化神经网络PD控制器

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5367881/latest

Fuzzy PD controllers are widely used in industry due to their excellent control performance and robustness. However, their performance heavily relies on manually designed fuzzy logic. Fuzzy neural networks (FNNs) combine neural networks and fuzzy logic, allowing them to utilize expert knowledge and possess self-learning capabilities. FNNs can be used to automatically tune PD parameters, resulting in a more robust fuzzy neural network PD (FNNPD) controller. Most current research on FNNPD controllers focuses on training using system mean square error, which can be inefficient and unstable, especially in complex systems. By integrating a critic in an actor-critic framework, learning efficiency improves as the critic provides direct feedback by evaluating actions, leading to faster and more stable training. This paper proposes an algorithm that applies the Soft Actor-Critic (SAC) framework to FNNPD controller, referred to as soft fuzzy reinforcement neural network PD (SFPD) controller. The SFPD algorithm can pre-set the parameters of FNNs using expert knowledge, ensuring good control performance from the beginning of training. By using reinforcement learning, the network parameters can be automatically adjusted. The use of a stochastic algorithm with entropy during the exploration process greatly accelerates exploration. Reported results demonstrate that the proposed method achieves rapid learning speed and superior control performance, and exhibits robustness to noise. The utilization of expert knowledge enables the proposed controller to exhibit good control performance from the start of training.


---
# A Comparison of Optimization Techniques for Large-scale Allocation of Soybean Crops

## 大豆作物规模化配置的优化技术比较

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5648771/latest

The optimal allocation of crops to different parcels of land is a problem of paramount practical importance, not only to improve food and feed production, but also to address the challenges posed by climate change. However, this optimization problem is inherently complex due to the large number of agricultural parcels available which generates a vast search space that renders traditional optimization techniques impractical. Moreover, as maximizing average production may generate solutions characterized by high year-by-year instability and lead to large and unrealistic cultivated areas, it is necessary to optimize crop allocation considering several objectives at the same time. In order to tackle this complex optimization problem, we propose a multi-objective approach, simultaneously maximizing the average production, minimizing the year-on-year production variance, and minimizing the total cultivated surface. The approach exploits an established multiobjective evolutionary algorithm, and employs a machine learning model able to predict crop production from weather and soil conditions, trained on historical data, making it possible to tackle allocation problems of large size. As a reference, we also present a comparison with a quadratic programming algorithm specifically tailored to the target problem. A case study focusing on the allocation of soybean crops in the European continent for the years 2000-2023 shows that the proposed methodology is able to identify informative trade-offs between the conflicting objectives, and identify realistic and meaningful crop allocations for supporting stakeholders&rsquo; decisions.


---
# Explainable deep learning improves human mental models of self-driving cars

## 可解释的深度学习改善了自动驾驶汽车的人类心理模型

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5515263/latest

Self-driving cars increasingly rely on deep neural networks to achieve human-like driving [1, 2]. However, the opacity of such black-box motion planners makes it challenging for the human behind the wheel to accurately anticipate when they will fail [3&ndash;5], with potentially catastrophic consequences [6&ndash;8]. Here, we introduce concept-wrapper network (i.e., CW-Net), a method for explaining the behavior of black-box motion planners by grounding their reasoning in human-interpretable concepts. We deploy CW-Net on a real self-driving car and show that the resulting explanations refine the human driver&rsquo;s mental model of the car, allowing them to better predict its behavior and adjust their own behavior accordingly. Unlike previous work using toy domains or simulations [9&ndash;11], our study presents the first real-world demonstration of how to build authentic autonomous vehicles (AVs) that give interpretable, causally faithful explanations for their decisions, without sacrificing performance. We anticipate our method could be applied to other safety-critical systems with a human in the loop, such as autonomous drones and robotic surgeons. Overall, our study suggests a pathway to explainability for autonomous agents as a whole, which can help make them more transparent, their deployment safer, and their usage more ethical.

