# Machine learning delta-T noise for temperature bias estimation

## 用于温度偏差估计的机器学习delta-t噪声

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00288

arXiv:2412.00288v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Delta-T shot noise is activated in temperature-biased electronic junctions, down to the atomic scale. It is characterized by a quadratic dependence on the temperature difference and a nonlinear relationship with the transmission coefficients of partially opened conduction channels. In this work, we demonstrate that delta-T noise, measured across an ensemble of atomic-scale junctions, can be utilized to estimate the temperature bias in these systems. Our approach employs a supervised machine learning algorithm to train a neural network with input features being the scaled electrical conductance, the delta-T noise, and the mean temperature. Due to limited experimental data, we generate synthetic datasets, designed to mimic experiments. The neural network, trained on these synthetic data, was subsequently applied to predict temperature biases from experimental datasets. Using performance metrics, we demonstrate that the mean bias -- the deviation of predicted temperature differences from their true value -- is less than 1 K for junctions with conductance up to 4$G_0$. Our study highlights that, while a single delta-T noise measurement is insufficient for accurately estimating the applied temperature bias due to noise contributions from other sources, averaging over an ensemble of junctions enables predictions within experimental uncertainties. This demonstrates that machine learning approaches can be utilized for estimation of temperature biases, and similarly other stimuli in electronic junctions.


---
# Theoretical Studies on Sodium Storage Mechanism in Hard Carbon Anodes of Sodium-Ion Batteries: Molecular Simulations Based on Machine Learning Force Fields

## 钠离子电池硬碳阳极储钠机理的理论研究 -- 基于机器学习力场的分子模拟

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00340

arXiv:2412.00340v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Sodium-ion batteries (SIBs) have garnered significant attention in recent years as a promising alternative to lithium-ion batteries (LIBs) due to their low cost, abundant sodium resources, and excellent cycling performance. Hard carbon materials, characterized by their high specific capacity, outstanding cycling stability, and low cost, have emerged as potential candidates for SIB anodes. However, the sodium storage mechanism in hard carbon anodes remains highly complex, especially in disordered structures, and is yet to be fully understood. To address this, we employed relative machine learning force fields (MLFFs) in conjunction with multiscale simulation techniques to systematically investigate the sodium storage behavior in hard carbon. By integrating simulations, this study provides a detailed exploration of sodium adsorption, intercalation, and filling mechanisms. High-precision, large-scale simulations reveal the dynamic behavior and distribution patterns of sodium ions in hard carbon. The findings not only deepen our understanding of sodium storage mechanisms in hard carbon anodes, but also offer a theoretical foundation for optimizing future SIB designs, while introducing novel simulation methodologies and technical frameworks to enhance battery performance.


---
# Quantum Delocalization Enables Water Dissociation on Ru(0001)

## 量子离域使Ru(0001) 上的水解离

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00484

arXiv:2412.00484v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We revisit the long-standing question of whether water molecules dissociate on the Ru(0001) surface through nanosecond-scale path-integral molecular dynamics simulations on a sizable supercell. This is made possible through the development of an efficient and reliable machine-learning potential with near first-principles accuracy, overcoming the limitations of previous ab initio studies. We show that the quantum delocalization associated with nuclear quantum effects enables rapid and frequent proton transfers between water molecules, thereby facilitating the water dissociation on Ru(0001). This work provides the direct theoretical evidence of water dissociation on Ru(0001), resolving the enduring issue in surface sciences and offering crucial atomistic insights into water-metal interfaces.


---
# Thermal creep behavior of refractory high-entropy alloy: an atomistic study

## 难熔高熵合金的热蠕变行为: 原子学研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00588

arXiv:2412.00588v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Refractory high-entropy alloy (RHEA) is a promising class of materials with potential applications in extreme environments, where the dominant failure mode is thermal creep. The design of these alloys, therefore, requires an understanding of how their microstructure and local chemical distribution affect creep behavior. In this study, we performed high-fidelity atomistic simulations using machine-learning interatomic potentials to explore the creep behavior of MoNbTaW RHEA under a wide range of stress and temperature conditions. We parametrized grain size and local chemical order (LCO) to investigate the effects of these two important design variables, which can be controlled during the alloy fabrication process. Our investigation revealed that resistance to creep deformation is enhanced with larger grain size and higher levels of LCO. This study highlights the importance of utilizing LCO in conjunction with other microstructural properties when designing RHEAs for extreme environment applications.


---
# Solving and visualizing fractional quantum Hall wavefunctions with neural network

## 用神经网络求解和可视化分数阶量子霍尔波函数

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00618

arXiv:2412.00618v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We introduce an attention-based fermionic neural network (FNN) to variationally solve the problem of two-dimensional Coulomb electron gas in magnetic fields, a canonical platform for fractional quantum Hall (FQH) liquids, Wigner crystals and other unconventional electron states. Working directly with the full Hilbert space of $N$ electrons confined to a disk, our FNN consistently attains energies lower than LL-projected exact diagonalization (ED) and learns the ground state wavefunction to high accuracy. In low LL mixing regime, our FNN reveals microscopic features in the short-distance behavior of FQH wavefunction beyond the Laughlin ansatz. For moderate and strong LL mixing parameters, the FNN outperforms ED significantly. Moreover, a phase transition from FQH liquid to a crystal state is found at strong LL mixing. Our study demonstrates unprecedented power and universality of FNN based variational method for solving strong-coupling many-body problems with topological order and electron fractionalization.


---
# Formation Energy Prediction of Material Crystal Structures using Deep Learning

## 基于深度学习的材料晶体结构形成能预测

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00819

arXiv:2412.00819v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Determining the stability of chemical compounds is essential for advancing material discovery. In this study, we introduce a novel deep neural network model designed to predict a crystal's formation energy, which identifies its stability property. Our model leverages elemental fractions derived from material composition and incorporates the symmetry classification as an additional input feature. The materials' symmetry classifications represent the crystal polymorphs and are crucial for understanding phase transitions in materials. Our findings demonstrate that the integration of crystal system, point group, or space group symmetry information significantly enhances the predictive performance of the developed deep learning architecture, where the highest accuracy was achieved when space group classification was incorporated. In addition, we use the same model architecture to predict the energy above hull, an indicator to material stability, with formation energy as an additional input feature.


---
# A Quantum Computing Approach to Simulating Corrosion Inhibition

## 一种模拟腐蚀抑制的量子计算方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00951

arXiv:2412.00951v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: This work demonstrates a systematic implementation of hybrid quantum-classical computational methods for investigating corrosion inhibition mechanisms on aluminum surfaces. We present an integrated workflow combining density functional theory (DFT) with quantum algorithms through an active space embedding scheme, specifically applied to studying 1,2,4-Triazole and 1,2,4-Triazole-3-thiol inhibitors on Al111 surfaces. Our implementation leverages the ADAPT-VQE algorithm with benchmarking against classical DFT calculations, achieving binding energies of -0.386 eV and -1.279 eV for 1,2,4-Triazole and 1,2,4-Triazole-3-thiol, respectively. The enhanced binding energy of the thiol derivative aligns with experimental observations regarding sulfur-functionalized inhibitors' improved corrosion protection. The methodology employs the orb-d3-v2 machine learning potential for rapid geometry optimizations, followed by accurate DFT calculations using CP2K with PBE functional and Grimme's D3 dispersion corrections. Our benchmarking on smaller systems reveals that StatefulAdaptVQE implementation achieves a 5-6x computational speedup while maintaining accuracy. This work establishes a workflow for quantum-accelerated materials science studying periodic systems, demonstrating the viability of hybrid quantum-classical approaches for studying surface-adsorbate interactions in corrosion inhibition applications. In which, can be transferable to other applications such as carbon capture and battery materials studies.


---
# Simplified derivations for high-dimensional convex learning problems

## 高维凸学习问题的简化推导

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.01110

arXiv:2412.01110v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Statistical physics provides tools for analyzing high-dimensional problems in machine learning and theoretical neuroscience. These calculations, particularly those using the replica method, often involve lengthy derivations that can obscure physical interpretation. We give concise, non-replica derivations of several key results and highlight their underlying similarities. Specifically, we introduce a cavity approach to analyzing high-dimensional learning problems and apply it to three cases: perceptron classification of points, perceptron classification of manifolds, and kernel ridge regression. These problems share a common structure -- a bipartite system of interacting feature and datum variables -- enabling a unified analysis. For perceptron-capacity problems, we identify a symmetry that allows derivation of correct capacities through a na\"ive method. These results match those obtained through the replica method.


---
# Physically Constrained 3D Diffusion for Inverse Design of Fiber-reinforced Polymer Composite Materials

## 用于纤维增强聚合物复合材料反设计的物理约束3D扩散

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.01321

arXiv:2412.01321v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Designing fiber-reinforced polymer composites (FRPCs) with a tailored nonlinear stress-strain response can enable innovative applications across various industries. Currently, no efforts have achieved the inverse design of FRPCs that target the entire stress-strain curve. Here, we develop PC3D_Diffusion, a 3D spatial diffusion model designed for the inverse design of FRPCs. We generate 1.35 million FRPCs and calculate their stress-strain curves for training. Although the vanilla PC3D_Diffusion can generate visually appealing results, less than 10% of FRPCs generated by the vanilla model are collision-free, in which fibers do not intersect with each other. We then propose a loss-guided, learning-free approach to apply physical constraints during generation. As a result, PC3D_Diffusion can generate high-quality designs with tailored mechanical behaviors while guaranteeing to satisfy the physical constraints. PC3D_Diffusion advances FRPC inverse design and may facilitate the inverse design of other 3D materials, offering potential applications in industries reliant on materials with custom mechanical properties.


---
# Electrostatic interactions in atomistic and machine-learned potentials for polar materials

## 极性材料的原子和机器学习电势中的静电相互作用

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.01642

arXiv:2412.01642v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Long-range electrostatic interactions critically affect polar materials. However, state-of-the-art atomistic potentials, such as neural networks or Gaussian approximation potentials employed in large-scale simulations, often neglect the role of these long-range electrostatic interactions.
  This study introduces a novel model derived from first principles to evaluate the contribution of long-range electrostatic interactions to total energies, forces, and stresses. The model is designed to integrate seamlessly with existing short-range force fields without further first-principles calculations or retraining. The approach relies solely on physical observables, like the dielectric tensor and Born effective charges, that can be consistently calculated from first principles. We demonstrate that the model reproduces critical features, such as the LO-TO splitting and the long-wavelength phonon dispersions of polar materials, with benchmark results on the cubic phase of barium titanate (BaTiO$_3$).


---
# Teaching oxidation states to neural networks

## 向神经网络教授氧化态

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.01652

arXiv:2412.01652v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: While the accurate description of redox reactions remains a challenge for first-principles calculations, it has been shown that extended Hubbard functionals (DFT+U+V) can provide a reliable approach, mitigating self-interaction errors, in materials with strongly localized d or f electrons. Here, we first show that DFT+U+V molecular dynamics is capable to follow the adiabatic evolution of oxidation states over time, using representative Li-ion cathode materials. In turn, this allows to develop redox-aware machine-learned potentials. We show that considering atoms with different oxidation states (as accurately predicted by DFT+U+V) as distinct species in the training leads to potentials that are able to identify the correct ground state and pattern of oxidation states for redox elements present. This can be achieved, e.g., through a systematic combinatorial search for the lowest energy configuration or with stochastic methods. This brings the advantages of machine-learned potentials to key technological applications (e.g., rechargeable batteries), which require an accurate description of the evolution of redox states.


---
# Differential learning kinetics govern the transition from memorization to generalization during in-context learning

## 微分学习动力学控制上下文学习过程中从记忆到泛化的过渡

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00104

arXiv:2412.00104v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Transformers exhibit in-context learning (ICL): the ability to use novel information presented in the context without additional weight updates. Recent work shows that ICL emerges when models are trained on a sufficiently diverse set of tasks and the transition from memorization to generalization is sharp with increasing task diversity. One interpretation is that a network's limited capacity to memorize favors generalization. Here, we examine the mechanistic underpinnings of this transition using a small transformer applied to a synthetic ICL task. Using theory and experiment, we show that the sub-circuits that memorize and generalize can be viewed as largely independent. The relative rates at which these sub-circuits learn explains the transition from memorization to generalization, rather than capacity constraints. We uncover a memorization scaling law, which determines the task diversity threshold at which the network generalizes. The theory quantitatively explains a variety of other ICL-related phenomena, including the long-tailed distribution of when ICL is acquired, the bimodal behavior of solutions close to the task diversity threshold, the influence of contextual and data distributional statistics on ICL, and the transient nature of ICL.


---
# PAL -- Parallel active learning for machine-learned potentials

## PAL -- 机器学习电位的并行主动学习

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00401

arXiv:2412.00401v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Constructing datasets representative of the target domain is essential for training effective machine learning models. Active learning (AL) is a promising method that iteratively extends training data to enhance model performance while minimizing data acquisition costs. However, current AL workflows often require human intervention and lack parallelism, leading to inefficiencies and underutilization of modern computational resources. In this work, we introduce PAL, an automated, modular, and parallel active learning library that integrates AL tasks and manages their execution and communication on shared- and distributed-memory systems using the Message Passing Interface (MPI). PAL provides users with the flexibility to design and customize all components of their active learning scenarios, including machine learning models with uncertainty estimation, oracles for ground truth labeling, and strategies for exploring the target space. We demonstrate that PAL significantly reduces computational overhead and improves scalability, achieving substantial speed-ups through asynchronous parallelization on CPU and GPU hardware. Applications of PAL to several real-world scenarios - including ground-state reactions in biomolecular systems, excited-state dynamics of molecules, simulations of inorganic clusters, and thermo-fluid dynamics - illustrate its effectiveness in accelerating the development of machine learning models. Our results show that PAL enables efficient utilization of high-performance computing resources in active learning workflows, fostering advancements in scientific research and engineering applications.


---
# Quantum Active Learning for Structural Determination of Doped Nanoparticles -- a Case Study of 4Al@Si$_{11}$

## 掺杂纳米粒子结构确定的量子主动学习 -- 以4Al @ Si $_{ 11}$ 为例

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00504

arXiv:2412.00504v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Active learning (AL) has been widely applied in chemistry and materials science. In this work we propose a quantum active learning (QAL) method for automatic structural determination of doped nanoparticles, where quantum machine learning (QML) models for regression are used iteratively to indicate new structures to be calculated by DFT or DFTB and this new data acquisition is used to retrain the QML models. The QAL method is implemented in the Quantum Machine Learning Software/Agent for Material Design and Discovery (QMLMaterial), whose aim is using an artificial agent (defined by QML regression algorithms) that chooses the next doped configuration to be calculated that has a higher probability of finding the optimum structure. The QAL uses a quantum Gaussian process with a fidelity quantum kernel as well as the projected quantum kernel and different quantum circuits. For comparison, classical AL was used with a classical Gaussian process with different classical kernels. The presented QAL method was applied in the structural determination of doped Si$_{11}$ with 4 Al (4Al@Si$_{11}$) and the results indicate the QAL method is able to find the optimum 4Al@Si$_{11}$ structure. The aim of this work is to present the QAL method -- formulated in a noise-free quantum computing framework -- for automatic structural determination of doped nanoparticles and materials defects.


---
# Extending the atomic decomposition and many-body representation, a chemistry-motivated monomer-centered approach for machine learning potentials

## 扩展原子分解和多体表示，这是一种以化学为动力的以单体为中心的机器学习潜力方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00522

arXiv:2412.00522v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Most widely used machine learned (ML) potentials for condensed phase applications rely on many-body permutationally invariant polynomial (PIP) or atom-centered neural networks (NN). However, these approaches often lack chemical interpretability in atomistic energy decomposition and the computational efficiency of traditional force fields has not been fully achieved. Here, we present a novel method that combines aspects of both approaches, and achieves state-of-the-art balance of accuracy and force field-level speed. This method utilizes a monomer-centered representation, where the potential energy is decomposed into the sum of chemically meaningful monomeric energies. Without sophisticated neural network design, the structural descriptors of monomers are described by 1-body and 2-body effective interactions, enforced by appropriate sets of PIPs as inputs to the feed forward NN. We demonstrate the performance of this method through systematic assessments of models for gas-phase water trimer, liquid water, and also liquid CO2. The high accuracy, fast speed, and flexibility of this method provide a new route for constructing accurate ML potentials and enabling large-scale quantum and classical simulations for complex molecular systems.


---
# Machine Learning Analysis of Anomalous Diffusion

## 反常扩散的机器学习分析

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.01393

arXiv:2412.01393v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: The rapid advancements in machine learning have made its application to anomalous diffusion analysis both essential and inevitable. This review systematically introduces the integration of machine learning techniques for enhanced analysis of anomalous diffusion, focusing on two pivotal aspects: single trajectory characterization via machine learning and representation learning of anomalous diffusion. We extensively compare various machine learning methods, including both classical machine learning and deep learning, used for the inference of diffusion parameters and trajectory segmentation. Additionally, platforms such as the Anomalous Diffusion Challenge that serve as benchmarks for evaluating these methods are highlighted. On the other hand, we outline three primary strategies for representing anomalous diffusion: the combination of predefined features, the feature vector from the penultimate layer of neural network, and the latent representation from the autoencoder, analyzing their applicability across various scenarios. This investigation paves the way for future research, offering valuable perspectives that can further enrich the study of anomalous diffusion and advance the application of artificial intelligence in statistical physics and biophysics.


---
# Task learning through stimulation-induced plasticity in neural networks

## 通过神经网络中的刺激诱导可塑性进行任务学习

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.01683

arXiv:2412.01683v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Synaptic plasticity dynamically shapes the connectivity of neural systems and is key to learning processes in the brain. To what extent the mechanisms of plasticity can be exploited to drive a neural network and make it perform some kind of computational task remains unclear. This question, relevant in a bioengineering context, can be formulated as a control problem on a high-dimensional system with strongly constrained and non-linear dynamics. We present a self-contained procedure which, through appropriate spatio-temporal stimulations of the neurons, is able to drive rate-based neural networks with arbitrary initial connectivity towards a desired functional state. We illustrate our approach on two different computational tasks: a non-linear association between multiple input stimulations and activity patterns (representing digit images), and the construction of a continuous attractor encoding a collective variable in a neural population. Our work thus provides a proof of principle for emerging paradigms of in vitro computation based on real neurons.


---
# Scale-free behavior of weight distributions of connectomes

## 连接体重量分布的无标度行为

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.17220

arXiv:2407.17220v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: To determine the precise link between anatomical structure and function, brain studies primarily concentrate on the anatomical wiring of the brain and its topological properties. In this work, we investigate the weighted degree and connection length distributions of the KKI-113 and KKI-18 human connectomes, the fruit fly, and of the mouse retina. We found that the node strength (weighted degree) distribution behavior differs depending on the considered scale. On the global scale, the distributions are found to follow a power-law behavior, with a roughly universal exponent close to 3. However, this behavior breaks at the local scale as the node strength distributions of the KKI-18 follow a stretched exponential, and the fly and mouse retina follow the lognormal distribution, respectively which are indicative of underlying random multiplicative processes and underpins non-locality of learning in a brain close to the critical state. However, for the case of the KKI-113 and the H01 human (1mm$^3$) datasets, the local weighted degree distributions follow an exponentially truncated power-law, which may hint at the fact that the critical learning mechanism may have manifested at the node level too.


---
# Liquid Hopfield model: retrieval and localization in multicomponent liquid mixtures

## 液体Hopfield模型: 多组分液体混合物中的检索和定位

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.18853

arXiv:2310.18853v5 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Biological mixtures, such as the cellular cytoplasm, are composed of a large number of different components. From this heterogeneity, ordered mesoscopic structures emerge, such as liquid phases with controlled composition. These structures compete with each other for the same components. This raises several questions, such as what types of interactions allow the retrieval of multiple ordered mesoscopic structures, and what are the physical limitations for the retrieval of said structures. In this work, we develop an analytically tractable model for liquids capable of retrieving states with target compositions. We name this model the liquid Hopfield model in reference to corresponding work in the theory of associative neural networks. By solving this model, we show that non-linear repulsive interactions are necessary for retrieval of target structures. We demonstrate that this is because liquid mixtures at low temperatures tend to transition to phases with few components, a phenomenon that we term localization. Taken together, our results demonstrate a trade-off between retrieval and localization phenomena in liquid mixtures.


---
# Multiscale Physics-Informed Neural Networks for the Inverse Design of Hyperuniform Optical Materials

## 用于超均匀光学材料逆设计的多尺度物理通知神经网络

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07878

arXiv:2405.07878v4 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: In this article, we employ multiscale physics-informed neural networks (MscalePINNs) for the inverse design of finite-size photonic materials with stealthy hyperuniform (SHU) disordered geometries. Specifically, we show that MscalePINNs can capture the fast spatial variations of complex fields scattered by arrays of dielectric nanocylinders arranged according to isotropic SHU point patterns, thus enabling a systematic methodology to inversely retrieve their effective dielectric profiles. Our approach extends the recently developed high-frequency homogenization theory of hyperuniform media and retrieves more general permittivity profiles for applications-relevant finite-size SHU systems, unveiling unique features related to their isotropic nature. In particular, we numerically corroborate the existence of a transparency region beyond the long-wavelength approximation, enabling effective and isotropic homogenization even without disorder-averaging, in contrast to the case of uncorrelated Poisson random patterns. The flexible multiscale network approach introduced here enables the efficient inverse design of more general effective media and finite-size optical metamaterials with isotropic electromagnetic responses beyond the limitations of traditional homogenization theories.


---
# High Magnitude Earthquake Identification Using an Anomaly Detection Approach on HR GNSS Data

## 基于HR GNSS数据的异常检测方法识别高震级地震

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00264

arXiv:2412.00264v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Earthquake early warning systems are crucial for protecting areas that are subject to these natural disasters. An essential part of these systems is the detection procedure. Traditionally these systems work with seismograph data, but high rate GNSS data has become a promising alternative for the usage in large earthquake early warning systems. Besides traditional methods, deep learning approaches have gained recent popularity in this field, as they are able to leverage the large amounts of real and synthetic seismic data. Nevertheless, the usage of deep learning on GNSS data remains a comparatively new topic. This work contributes to the field of early warning systems by proposing an autoencoder based deep learning pipeline that aims to be lightweight and customizable for the detection of anomalies viz. high magnitude earthquakes in GNSS data. This model, DetEQ, is trained using the noise data recordings from nine stations located in Chile. The detection pipeline encompasses: (i) the generation of an anomaly score using the ground truth and reconstructed output from the autoencoder, (ii) the detection of relevant seismic events through an appropriate threshold, and (iii) the filtering of local events, that would lead to false positives. Robustness of the model was tested on the HR GNSS real data of 2011 Mw 6.8 Concepcion earthquake recorded at six stations. The results highlight the potential of GNSS based deep learning models for effective earthquake detection.


---
# Extending the atomic decomposition and many-body representation, a chemistry-motivated monomer-centered approach for machine learning potentials

## 扩展原子分解和多体表示，这是一种以化学为动力的以单体为中心的机器学习潜力方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00522

arXiv:2412.00522v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Most widely used machine learned (ML) potentials for condensed phase applications rely on many-body permutationally invariant polynomial (PIP) or atom-centered neural networks (NN). However, these approaches often lack chemical interpretability in atomistic energy decomposition and the computational efficiency of traditional force fields has not been fully achieved. Here, we present a novel method that combines aspects of both approaches, and achieves state-of-the-art balance of accuracy and force field-level speed. This method utilizes a monomer-centered representation, where the potential energy is decomposed into the sum of chemically meaningful monomeric energies. Without sophisticated neural network design, the structural descriptors of monomers are described by 1-body and 2-body effective interactions, enforced by appropriate sets of PIPs as inputs to the feed forward NN. We demonstrate the performance of this method through systematic assessments of models for gas-phase water trimer, liquid water, and also liquid CO2. The high accuracy, fast speed, and flexibility of this method provide a new route for constructing accurate ML potentials and enabling large-scale quantum and classical simulations for complex molecular systems.


---
# Operator learning regularization for macroscopic permeability prediction in dual-scale flow problem

## 双尺度流动问题中宏观渗透率预测的算子学习正则化

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00579

arXiv:2412.00579v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Liquid composites moulding is an important manufacturing technology for fibre reinforced composites, due to its cost-effectiveness. Challenges lie in the optimisation of the process due to the lack of understanding of key characteristic of textile fabrics - permeability. The problem of computing the permeability coefficient can be modelled as the well-known Stokes-Brinkman equation, which introduces a heterogeneous parameter $\beta$ distinguishing macropore regions and fibre-bundle regions. In the present work, we train a Fourier neural operator to learn the nonlinear map from the heterogeneous coefficient $\beta$ to the velocity field $u$, and recover the corresponding macroscopic permeability $K$. This is a challenging inverse problem since both the input and output fields span several order of magnitudes, we introduce different regularization techniques for the loss function and perform a quantitative comparison between them.


---
# Well log data generation and imputation using sequence-based generative adversarial networks

## 使用基于序列的生成对抗网络的测井数据生成和填补

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00718

arXiv:2412.00718v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Well log analysis is crucial for hydrocarbon exploration, providing detailed insights into subsurface geological formations. However, gaps and inaccuracies in well log data, often due to equipment limitations, operational challenges, and harsh subsurface conditions, can introduce significant uncertainties in reservoir evaluation. Addressing these challenges requires effective methods for both synthetic data generation and precise imputation of missing data, ensuring data completeness and reliability. This study introduces a novel framework utilizing sequence-based generative adversarial networks (GANs) specifically designed for well log data generation and imputation. The framework integrates two distinct sequence-based GAN models: Time Series GAN (TSGAN) for generating synthetic well log data and Sequence GAN (SeqGAN) for imputing missing data. Both models were tested on a dataset from the North Sea, Netherlands region, focusing on different sections of 5, 10, and 50 data points. Experimental results demonstrate that this approach achieves superior accuracy in filling data gaps compared to other deep learning models for spatial series analysis. The method yielded R^2 values of 0.921, 0.899, and 0.594, with corresponding mean absolute percentage error (MAPE) values of 8.320, 0.005, and 151.154, and mean absolute error (MAE) values of 0.012, 0.005, and 0.032, respectively. These results set a new benchmark for data integrity and utility in geosciences, particularly in well log data analysis.


---
# QuakeFormer: A Uniform Approach to Earthquake Ground Motion Prediction Using Masked Transformers

## QuakeFormer: 使用掩蔽变压器进行地震地面运动预测的统一方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00815

arXiv:2412.00815v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Ground motion prediction (GMP) models are critical for hazard reduction before, during and after destructive earthquakes. In these three stages, intensity forecasting, early warning and interpolation models are corresponding employed to assess the risk. Considering the high cost in numerical methods and the oversimplification in statistical methods, deep-learning-based approaches aim to provide accurate and near-real-time ground motion prediction. Current approaches are limited by specialized architectures, overlooking the interconnection among these three tasks. What's more, the inadequate modeling of absolute and relative spatial dependencies mischaracterizes epistemic uncertainty into aleatory variability. Here we introduce QuakeFormer, a unified deep learning architecture that combines these three tasks in one framework. We design a multi-station-based Transformer architecture and a flexible masking strategy for training QuakeFormer. This data-driven approach enables the model to learn spatial ground motion dependencies directly from real seismic recordings, incorporating location embeddings that include both absolute and relative spatial coordinates. The results indicate that our model outperforms state-of-the-art ground motion prediction models across all three tasks in our research areas. We also find that pretraining a uniform forecasting and interpolation model enhances the performance on early warning task. QuakeFormer offers a flexible approach to directly learning and modeling ground motion, providing valuable insights and applications for both earthquake science and engineering.


---
# AI Meets Antimatter: Unveiling Antihydrogen Annihilations

## AI遇到反物质: 揭示反氢an灭

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00961

arXiv:2412.00961v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The ALPHA-g experiment at CERN aims to perform the first-ever direct measurement of the effect of gravity on antimatter, determining its weight to within 1% precision. This measurement requires an accurate prediction of the vertical position of annihilations within the detector. In this work, we present a novel approach to annihilation position reconstruction using an ensemble of models based on the PointNet deep learning architecture. The newly developed model, PointNet Ensemble for Annihilation Reconstruction (PEAR) outperforms the standard approach to annihilation position reconstruction, providing more than twice the resolution while maintaining a similarly low bias. This work may also offer insights for similar efforts applying deep learning to experiments that require high resolution and low bias.


---
# Cosmology and general relativity (GR) in upper secondary school through new targeted teaching materials: a study on student learning and motivation

## 高中宇宙学和广义相对论 (GR) 通过新的针对性教材: 学生学习和动机的研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.01551

arXiv:2412.01551v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Cosmology and GR remain largely inaccessible to high-school teaching due to the advanced prerequisites to master these topics. Integrating them into upper secondary teaching is a significant challenge that remains unresolved. This contribution reports on an implementation study of a GR and cosmology course for upper secondary school students as part of an educational project launched during the centenary of GR and tested ever since for several years. The course aimed to expand students' knowledge to include current physics topics while highlighting their foundations in areas of classical physics such as Newtonian mechanics, electromagnetism, and waves. Targeted teaching and learning materials are focused on conceptual and qualitative understanding, while systematically combined with a mathematical treatment accessible at the upper secondary level, avoiding oversimplification. A key element is an active learning approach, incorporating activities and tasks such as engaging applications related to current research, reflective exercises, thought experiments, and hands-on tasks. The main research objective was to explore whether a conceptually deep and educationally effective GR and cosmology course could be successfully implemented for non-specialist upper secondary students. A pre-post study assessed both conceptual learning and affective outcomes, including interest, curiosity, self-concept, and perceived relevance of science. Results showed encouraging gains in both learning and motivation, with large to very large effect sizes for conceptual learning of core principles. Additionally, no or small effects of predictors such as gender were observed. We conclude that the integration of GR and cosmology into upper secondary physics teaching, in the form of courses and materials that are engaging, comprehensible, and impactful, is feasible.


---
# Classifying pedestrian crossing flows: A data-driven approach using fundamental diagrams and machine learning

## 对人行横道流量进行分类: 使用基本图和机器学习的数据驱动方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.01729

arXiv:2412.01729v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: This study investigates the dynamics of pedestrian crossing flows with varying crossing angles $\alpha$ to classify different scenarios and derive implications for crowd management. Probability density functions of four key features$-$velocity $v$, density $\rho$, avoidance number $Av$, and intrusion number $In$$-$were analyzed to characterize pedestrian behavior. Velocity-density fundamental diagrams were constructed for each $\alpha$ and fitted with functional forms from existing literature. Classification attempts using $Av$-$In$ and $v$-$\rho$ phase spaces revealed significant overlaps, highlighting the limitations of these metrics alone for scenario differentiation. To address this, machine learning models, including logistic regression and random forest, were employed using all four features. Results showed robust classification performance, with $v$ and $Av$ contributing most significantly. Insights from feature importance metrics and classification accuracy offer practical guidance for managing high-density crowds, optimizing pedestrian flow, and designing safer public spaces. These findings provide a data-driven framework for advancing pedestrian dynamics research.


---
# Enhanced Lung Cancer Survival Prediction using Semi-Supervised Pseudo-Labeling and Learning from Diverse PET/CT Datasets

## 使用半监督伪标记和从不同的PET/CT数据集学习增强肺癌生存预测

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00068

arXiv:2412.00068v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Objective: This study explores a semi-supervised learning (SSL), pseudo-labeled strategy using diverse datasets to enhance lung cancer (LCa) survival predictions, analyzing Handcrafted and Deep Radiomic Features (HRF/DRF) from PET/CT scans with Hybrid Machine Learning Systems (HMLS). Methods: We collected 199 LCa patients with both PET & CT images, obtained from The Cancer Imaging Archive (TCIA) and our local database, alongside 408 head&amp;neck cancer (HNCa) PET/CT images from TCIA. We extracted 215 HRFs and 1024 DRFs by PySERA and a 3D-Autoencoder, respectively, within the ViSERA software, from segmented primary tumors. The supervised strategy (SL) employed a HMLSs: PCA connected with 4 classifiers on both HRF and DRFs. SSL strategy expanded the datasets by adding 408 pseudo-labeled HNCa cases (labeled by Random Forest algorithm) to 199 LCa cases, using the same HMLSs techniques. Furthermore, Principal Component Analysis (PCA) linked with 4 survival prediction algorithms were utilized in survival hazard ratio analysis. Results: SSL strategy outperformed SL method (p-value<0.05), achieving an average accuracy of 0.85 with DRFs from PET and PCA+ Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP), compared to 0.65 for SL strategy using DRFs from CT and PCA+ K-Nearest Neighbor (KNN). Additionally, PCA linked with Component-wise Gradient Boosting Survival Analysis on both HRFs and DRFs, as extracted from CT, had an average c-index of 0.80 with a Log Rank p-value<<0.001, confirmed by external testing. Conclusions: Shifting from HRFs and SL to DRFs and SSL strategies, particularly in contexts with limited data points, enabling CT or PET alone to significantly achieve high predictive performance.


---
# The Muon Space GNSS-R Surface Soil Moisture Product

## Μ 子空间gnss-r表层土壤水分产品

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00072

arXiv:2412.00072v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Muon Space (Muon) is building a constellation of small satellites, many of which will carry global navigation satellite system-reflectometry (GNSS-R) receivers. In preparation for the launch of this constellation, we have developed a generalized deep learning retrieval pipeline, which now produces operational GNSS-R near-surface soil moisture retrievals using data from NASA's Cyclone GNSS (CYGNSS) mission. In this article, we describe the input datasets, preprocessing methods, model architecture, development methods, and detail the soil moisture products generated from these retrievals. The performance of this product is quantified against in situ measurements and compared to both the target dataset (retrievals from the Soil Moisture Active-Passive (SMAP) satellite) and the v1.0 soil moisture product from the CYGNSS mission. The Muon Space product achieves improvements in spatial resolution over SMAP with comparable performance in many regions. An ubRMSE of 0.032 cm$^3$ cm$^{-3}$ for in situ soil moisture observations from SMAP core validation sites is shown, though performance is lower than SMAP's when comparing in forests and/or mountainous terrain. The Muon Space product outperforms the v1.0 CYGNSS soil moisture product in almost all aspects. This initial release serves as the foundation of our operational soil moisture product, which soon will additionally include data from Muon Space satellites.


---
# Spatial Clustering of Molecular Localizations with Graph Neural Networks

## 用图神经网络对分子定位进行空间聚类

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00173

arXiv:2412.00173v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Single-molecule localization microscopy generates point clouds corresponding to fluorophore localizations. Spatial cluster identification and analysis of these point clouds are crucial for extracting insights about molecular organization. However, this task becomes challenging in the presence of localization noise, high point density, or complex biological structures. Here, we introduce MIRO (Multimodal Integration through Relational Optimization), an algorithm that uses recurrent graph neural networks to transform the point clouds in order to improve clustering efficiency when applying conventional clustering techniques. We show that MIRO supports simultaneous processing of clusters of different shapes and at multiple scales, demonstrating improved performance across varied datasets. Our comprehensive evaluation demonstrates MIRO's transformative potential for single-molecule localization applications, showcasing its capability to revolutionize cluster analysis and provide accurate, reliable details of molecular architecture. In addition, MIRO's robust clustering capabilities hold promise for applications in various fields such as neuroscience, for the analysis of neural connectivity patterns, and environmental science, for studying spatial distributions of ecological data.


---
# Meta-learning Loss Functions of Parametric Partial Differential Equations Using Physics-Informed Neural Networks

## 使用物理信息神经网络的参数偏微分方程的元学习损失函数

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00225

arXiv:2412.00225v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: This paper proposes a new way to learn Physics-Informed Neural Network loss functions using Generalized Additive Models. We apply our method by meta-learning parametric partial differential equations, PDEs, on Burger's and 2D Heat Equations. The goal is to learn a new loss function for each parametric PDE using meta-learning. The derived loss function replaces the traditional data loss, allowing us to learn each parametric PDE more efficiently, improving the meta-learner's performance and convergence.


---
# PAL -- Parallel active learning for machine-learned potentials

## PAL -- 机器学习电位的并行主动学习

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00401

arXiv:2412.00401v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Constructing datasets representative of the target domain is essential for training effective machine learning models. Active learning (AL) is a promising method that iteratively extends training data to enhance model performance while minimizing data acquisition costs. However, current AL workflows often require human intervention and lack parallelism, leading to inefficiencies and underutilization of modern computational resources. In this work, we introduce PAL, an automated, modular, and parallel active learning library that integrates AL tasks and manages their execution and communication on shared- and distributed-memory systems using the Message Passing Interface (MPI). PAL provides users with the flexibility to design and customize all components of their active learning scenarios, including machine learning models with uncertainty estimation, oracles for ground truth labeling, and strategies for exploring the target space. We demonstrate that PAL significantly reduces computational overhead and improves scalability, achieving substantial speed-ups through asynchronous parallelization on CPU and GPU hardware. Applications of PAL to several real-world scenarios - including ground-state reactions in biomolecular systems, excited-state dynamics of molecules, simulations of inorganic clusters, and thermo-fluid dynamics - illustrate its effectiveness in accelerating the development of machine learning models. Our results show that PAL enables efficient utilization of high-performance computing resources in active learning workflows, fostering advancements in scientific research and engineering applications.


---
# Automatic Differentiation-based Full Waveform Inversion with Flexible Workflows

## 具有灵活工作流程的基于自动微分的全波形反演

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00486

arXiv:2412.00486v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Full waveform inversion (FWI) is able to construct high-resolution subsurface models by iteratively minimizing discrepancies between observed and simulated seismic data. However, its implementation can be rather involved for complex wave equations, objective functions, or regularization. Recently, automatic differentiation (AD) has proven to be effective in simplifying solutions of various inverse problems, including FWI. In this study, we present an open-source AD-based FWI framework (ADFWI), which is designed to simplify the design, development, and evaluation of novel approaches in FWI with flexibility. The AD-based framework not only includes forword modeling and associated gradient computations for wave equations in various types of media from isotropic acoustic to vertically or horizontally transverse isotropic elastic, but also incorporates a suite of objective functions, regularization techniques, and optimization algorithms. By leveraging state-of-the-art AD, objective functions such as soft dynamic time warping and Wasserstein distance, which are difficult to apply in traditional FWI are also easily integrated into ADFWI. In addition, ADFWI is integrated with deep learning for implicit model reparameterization via neural networks, which not only introduces learned regularization but also allows rapid estimation of uncertainty through dropout. To manage high memory demands in large-scale inversion associated with AD, the proposed framework adopts strategies such as mini-batch and checkpointing. Through comprehensive evaluations, we demonstrate the novelty, practicality and robustness of ADFWI, which can be used to address challenges in FWI and as a workbench for prompt experiments and the development of new inversion strategies.


---
# Scalable nonlinear manifold reduced order model for dynamical systems

## 动力系统的可扩展非线性流形降阶模型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00507

arXiv:2412.00507v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: The domain decomposition (DD) nonlinear-manifold reduced-order model (NM-ROM) represents a computationally efficient method for integrating underlying physics principles into a neural network-based, data-driven approach. Compared to linear subspace methods, NM-ROMs offer superior expressivity and enhanced reconstruction capabilities, while DD enables cost-effective, parallel training of autoencoders by partitioning the domain into algebraic subdomains. In this work, we investigate the scalability of this approach by implementing a "bottom-up" strategy: training NM-ROMs on smaller domains and subsequently deploying them on larger, composable ones. The application of this method to the two-dimensional time-dependent Burgers' equation shows that extrapolating from smaller to larger domains is both stable and effective. This approach achieves an accuracy of 1% in relative error and provides a remarkable speedup of nearly 700 times.


---
# The Well: a Large-Scale Collection of Diverse Physics Simulations for Machine Learning

## 井: 用于机器学习的各种物理模拟的大规模集合

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00568

arXiv:2412.00568v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Machine learning based surrogate models offer researchers powerful tools for accelerating simulation-based workflows. However, as standard datasets in this space often cover small classes of physical behavior, it can be difficult to evaluate the efficacy of new approaches. To address this gap, we introduce the Well: a large-scale collection of datasets containing numerical simulations of a wide variety of spatiotemporal physical systems. The Well draws from domain experts and numerical software developers to provide 15TB of data across 16 datasets covering diverse domains such as biological systems, fluid dynamics, acoustic scattering, as well as magneto-hydrodynamic simulations of extra-galactic fluids or supernova explosions. These datasets can be used individually or as part of a broader benchmark suite. To facilitate usage of the Well, we provide a unified PyTorch interface for training and evaluating models. We demonstrate the function of this library by introducing example baselines that highlight the new challenges posed by the complex dynamics of the Well. The code and data is available at https://github.com/PolymathicAI/the_well.


---
# Thermal creep behavior of refractory high-entropy alloy: an atomistic study

## 难熔高熵合金的热蠕变行为: 原子学研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00588

arXiv:2412.00588v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Refractory high-entropy alloy (RHEA) is a promising class of materials with potential applications in extreme environments, where the dominant failure mode is thermal creep. The design of these alloys, therefore, requires an understanding of how their microstructure and local chemical distribution affect creep behavior. In this study, we performed high-fidelity atomistic simulations using machine-learning interatomic potentials to explore the creep behavior of MoNbTaW RHEA under a wide range of stress and temperature conditions. We parametrized grain size and local chemical order (LCO) to investigate the effects of these two important design variables, which can be controlled during the alloy fabrication process. Our investigation revealed that resistance to creep deformation is enhanced with larger grain size and higher levels of LCO. This study highlights the importance of utilizing LCO in conjunction with other microstructural properties when designing RHEAs for extreme environment applications.


---
# Deep Learning for Longitudinal Gross Tumor Volume Segmentation in MRI-Guided Adaptive Radiotherapy for Head and Neck Cancer

## 基于深度学习的MRI引导头颈部肿瘤自适应放疗纵向大体肿瘤体积分割

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00663

arXiv:2412.00663v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Accurate segmentation of gross tumor volume (GTV) is essential for effective MRI-guided adaptive radiotherapy (MRgART) in head and neck cancer. However, manual segmentation of the GTV over the course of therapy is time-consuming and prone to interobserver variability. Deep learning (DL) has the potential to overcome these challenges by automatically delineating GTVs. In this study, our team, $\textit{UW LAIR}$, tackled the challenges of both pre-radiotherapy (pre-RT) (Task 1) and mid-radiotherapy (mid-RT) (Task 2) tumor volume segmentation. To this end, we developed a series of DL models for longitudinal GTV segmentation. The backbone of our models for both tasks was SegResNet with deep supervision. For Task 1, we trained the model using a combined dataset of pre-RT and mid-RT MRI data, which resulted in the improved aggregated Dice similarity coefficient (DSCagg) on an internal testing set compared to models trained solely on pre-RT MRI data. In Task 2, we introduced mask-aware attention modules, enabling pre-RT GTV masks to influence intermediate features learned from mid-RT data. This attention-based approach yielded slight improvements over the baseline method, which concatenated mid-RT MRI with pre-RT GTV masks as input. In the final testing phase, the ensemble of 10 pre-RT segmentation models achieved an average DSCagg of 0.794, with 0.745 for primary GTV (GTVp) and 0.844 for metastatic lymph nodes (GTVn) in Task 1. For Task 2, the ensemble of 10 mid-RT segmentation models attained an average DSCagg of 0.733, with 0.607 for GTVp and 0.859 for GTVn, leading us to $\textbf{achieve 1st place}$. In summary, we presented a collection of DL models that could facilitate GTV segmentation in MRgART, offering the potential to streamline radiation oncology workflows. Our code and model weights are available at https://github.com/xtie97/HNTS-MRG24-UWLAIR.


---
# Explicit and data-Efficient Encoding via Gradient Flow

## 通过梯度流实现显式和数据高效编码

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00864

arXiv:2412.00864v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: The autoencoder model typically uses an encoder to map data to a lower dimensional latent space and a decoder to reconstruct it. However, relying on an encoder for inversion can lead to suboptimal representations, particularly limiting in physical sciences where precision is key. We introduce a decoder-only method using gradient flow to directly encode data into the latent space, defined by ordinary differential equations (ODEs). This approach eliminates the need for approximate encoder inversion. We train the decoder via the adjoint method and show that costly integrals can be avoided with minimal accuracy loss. Additionally, we propose a $2^{nd}$ order ODE variant, approximating Nesterov's accelerated gradient descent for faster convergence. To handle stiff ODEs, we use an adaptive solver that prioritizes loss minimization, improving robustness. Compared to traditional autoencoders, our method demonstrates explicit encoding and superior data efficiency, which is crucial for data-scarce scenarios in the physical sciences. Furthermore, this work paves the way for integrating machine learning into scientific workflows, where precise and efficient encoding is critical. \footnote{The code for this work is available at \url{https://github.com/k-flouris/gfe}.}


---
# A Quantum Computing Approach to Simulating Corrosion Inhibition

## 一种模拟腐蚀抑制的量子计算方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00951

arXiv:2412.00951v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: This work demonstrates a systematic implementation of hybrid quantum-classical computational methods for investigating corrosion inhibition mechanisms on aluminum surfaces. We present an integrated workflow combining density functional theory (DFT) with quantum algorithms through an active space embedding scheme, specifically applied to studying 1,2,4-Triazole and 1,2,4-Triazole-3-thiol inhibitors on Al111 surfaces. Our implementation leverages the ADAPT-VQE algorithm with benchmarking against classical DFT calculations, achieving binding energies of -0.386 eV and -1.279 eV for 1,2,4-Triazole and 1,2,4-Triazole-3-thiol, respectively. The enhanced binding energy of the thiol derivative aligns with experimental observations regarding sulfur-functionalized inhibitors' improved corrosion protection. The methodology employs the orb-d3-v2 machine learning potential for rapid geometry optimizations, followed by accurate DFT calculations using CP2K with PBE functional and Grimme's D3 dispersion corrections. Our benchmarking on smaller systems reveals that StatefulAdaptVQE implementation achieves a 5-6x computational speedup while maintaining accuracy. This work establishes a workflow for quantum-accelerated materials science studying periodic systems, demonstrating the viability of hybrid quantum-classical approaches for studying surface-adsorbate interactions in corrosion inhibition applications. In which, can be transferable to other applications such as carbon capture and battery materials studies.


---
# Jacobian-Enforced Neural Networks (JENN) for Improved Data Assimilation Consistency in Dynamical Models

## 用于改善动力学模型中数据同化一致性的雅可比强制神经网络 (JENN)

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.01013

arXiv:2412.01013v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Machine learning-based weather models have shown great promise in producing accurate forecasts but have struggled when applied to data assimilation tasks, unlike traditional numerical weather prediction (NWP) models. This study introduces the Jacobian-Enforced Neural Network (JENN) framework, designed to enhance DA consistency in neural network (NN)-emulated dynamical systems. Using the Lorenz 96 model as an example, the approach demonstrates improved applicability of NNs in DA through explicit enforcement of Jacobian relationships. The NN architecture includes an input layer of 40 neurons, two hidden layers with 256 units each employing hyperbolic tangent activation functions, and an output layer of 40 neurons without activation.
  The JENN framework employs a two-step training process: an initial phase using standard prediction-label pairs to establish baseline forecast capability, followed by a secondary phase incorporating a customized loss function to enforce accurate Jacobian relationships. This loss function combines root mean square error (RMSE) between predicted and true state values with additional RMSE terms for tangent linear (TL) and adjoint (AD) emulation results, weighted to balance forecast accuracy and Jacobian sensitivity. To ensure consistency, the secondary training phase uses additional pairs of TL/AD inputs and labels calculated from the physical models. Notably, this approach does not require starting from scratch or structural modifications to the NN, making it readily applicable to pretrained models such as GraphCast, NeuralGCM, Pangu, or FuXi, facilitating their adaptation for DA tasks with minimal reconfiguration. Experimental results demonstrate that the JENN framework preserves nonlinear forecast performance while significantly reducing noise in the TL and AD components, as well as in the overall Jacobian matrix.


---
# Variational formulation based on duality to solve partial differential equations: Use of B-splines and machine learning approximants

## 基于对偶的变分公式求解偏微分方程: 使用b样条和机器学习近似值

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.01232

arXiv:2412.01232v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Many partial differential equations (PDEs) such as Navier--Stokes equations in fluid mechanics, inelastic deformation in solids, and transient parabolic and hyperbolic equations do not have an exact, primal variational structure. Recently, a variational principle based on the dual (Lagrange multiplier) field was proposed. The essential idea in this approach is to treat the given PDE as constraints, and to invoke an arbitrarily chosen auxiliary potential with strong convexity properties to be optimized. This leads to requiring a convex dual functional to be minimized subject to Dirichlet boundary conditions on dual variables, with the guarantee that even PDEs that do not possess a variational structure in primal form can be solved via a variational principle. The vanishing of the first variation of the dual functional is, up to Dirichlet boundary conditions on dual fields, the weak form of the primal PDE problem with the dual-to-primal change of variables incorporated. We derive the dual weak form for the linear, one-dimensional, transient convection-diffusion equation. A Galerkin discretization is used to obtain the discrete equations, with the trial and test functions chosen as linear combination of either RePU activation functions (shallow neural network) or B-spline basis functions; the corresponding stiffness matrix is symmetric. For transient problems, a space-time Galerkin implementation is used with tensor-product B-splines as approximating functions. Numerical results are presented for the steady-state and transient convection-diffusion equation, and transient heat conduction. The proposed method delivers sound accuracy for ODEs and PDEs and rates of convergence are established in the $L^2$ norm and $H^1$ seminorm for the steady-state convection-diffusion problem.


---
# Machine Learning Analysis of Anomalous Diffusion

## 反常扩散的机器学习分析

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.01393

arXiv:2412.01393v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: The rapid advancements in machine learning have made its application to anomalous diffusion analysis both essential and inevitable. This review systematically introduces the integration of machine learning techniques for enhanced analysis of anomalous diffusion, focusing on two pivotal aspects: single trajectory characterization via machine learning and representation learning of anomalous diffusion. We extensively compare various machine learning methods, including both classical machine learning and deep learning, used for the inference of diffusion parameters and trajectory segmentation. Additionally, platforms such as the Anomalous Diffusion Challenge that serve as benchmarks for evaluating these methods are highlighted. On the other hand, we outline three primary strategies for representing anomalous diffusion: the combination of predefined features, the feature vector from the penultimate layer of neural network, and the latent representation from the autoencoder, analyzing their applicability across various scenarios. This investigation paves the way for future research, offering valuable perspectives that can further enrich the study of anomalous diffusion and advance the application of artificial intelligence in statistical physics and biophysics.


---
# Electrostatic interactions in atomistic and machine-learned potentials for polar materials

## 极性材料的原子和机器学习电势中的静电相互作用

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.01642

arXiv:2412.01642v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Long-range electrostatic interactions critically affect polar materials. However, state-of-the-art atomistic potentials, such as neural networks or Gaussian approximation potentials employed in large-scale simulations, often neglect the role of these long-range electrostatic interactions.
  This study introduces a novel model derived from first principles to evaluate the contribution of long-range electrostatic interactions to total energies, forces, and stresses. The model is designed to integrate seamlessly with existing short-range force fields without further first-principles calculations or retraining. The approach relies solely on physical observables, like the dielectric tensor and Born effective charges, that can be consistently calculated from first principles. We demonstrate that the model reproduces critical features, such as the LO-TO splitting and the long-wavelength phonon dispersions of polar materials, with benchmark results on the cubic phase of barium titanate (BaTiO$_3$).


---
# Teaching oxidation states to neural networks

## 向神经网络教授氧化态

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.01652

arXiv:2412.01652v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: While the accurate description of redox reactions remains a challenge for first-principles calculations, it has been shown that extended Hubbard functionals (DFT+U+V) can provide a reliable approach, mitigating self-interaction errors, in materials with strongly localized d or f electrons. Here, we first show that DFT+U+V molecular dynamics is capable to follow the adiabatic evolution of oxidation states over time, using representative Li-ion cathode materials. In turn, this allows to develop redox-aware machine-learned potentials. We show that considering atoms with different oxidation states (as accurately predicted by DFT+U+V) as distinct species in the training leads to potentials that are able to identify the correct ground state and pattern of oxidation states for redox elements present. This can be achieved, e.g., through a systematic combinatorial search for the lowest energy configuration or with stochastic methods. This brings the advantages of machine-learned potentials to key technological applications (e.g., rechargeable batteries), which require an accurate description of the evolution of redox states.


---
# Liquid Hopfield model: retrieval and localization in multicomponent liquid mixtures

## 液体Hopfield模型: 多组分液体混合物中的检索和定位

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.18853

arXiv:2310.18853v5 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Biological mixtures, such as the cellular cytoplasm, are composed of a large number of different components. From this heterogeneity, ordered mesoscopic structures emerge, such as liquid phases with controlled composition. These structures compete with each other for the same components. This raises several questions, such as what types of interactions allow the retrieval of multiple ordered mesoscopic structures, and what are the physical limitations for the retrieval of said structures. In this work, we develop an analytically tractable model for liquids capable of retrieving states with target compositions. We name this model the liquid Hopfield model in reference to corresponding work in the theory of associative neural networks. By solving this model, we show that non-linear repulsive interactions are necessary for retrieval of target structures. We demonstrate that this is because liquid mixtures at low temperatures tend to transition to phases with few components, a phenomenon that we term localization. Taken together, our results demonstrate a trade-off between retrieval and localization phenomena in liquid mixtures.


---
# Physics-constrained convolutional neural networks for inverse problems in spatiotemporal partial differential equations

## 时空偏微分方程反问题的物理约束卷积神经网络

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.10306

arXiv:2401.10306v4 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We propose a physics-constrained convolutional neural network (PC-CNN) to solve two types of inverse problems in partial differential equations (PDEs), which are nonlinear and vary both in space and time. In the first inverse problem, we are given data that is offset by spatially varying systematic error (i.e., the bias, also known as the epistemic uncertainty). The task is to uncover the true state, which is the solution of the PDE, from the biased data. In the second inverse problem, we are given sparse information on the solution of a PDE. The task is to reconstruct the solution in space with high-resolution. First, we present the PC-CNN, which constrains the PDE with a time-windowing scheme to handle sequential data. Second, we analyse the performance of the PC-CNN for uncovering solutions from biased data. We analyse both linear and nonlinear convection-diffusion equations, and the Navier-Stokes equations, which govern the spatiotemporally chaotic dynamics of turbulent flows. We find that the PC-CNN correctly recovers the true solution for a variety of biases, which are parameterised as non-convex functions. Third, we analyse the performance of the PC-CNN for reconstructing solutions from sparse information for the turbulent flow. We reconstruct the spatiotemporal chaotic solution on a high-resolution grid from only 1% of the information contained in it. For both tasks, we further analyse the Navier-Stokes solutions. We find that the inferred solutions have a physical spectral energy content, whereas traditional methods, such as interpolation, do not. This work opens opportunities for solving inverse problems with partial differential equations.


---
# Analysis on reservoir activation with the nonlinearity harnessed from solution-processed molybdenum disulfide

## 利用溶液处理的二硫化钼的非线性进行储层活化分析

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17676

arXiv:2403.17676v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Reservoir computing is a recurrent neural network designed for approximating complex dynamics in, for instance, motion tracking, spatial-temporal pattern recognition, and chaotic attractor reconstruction. Its implementation demands intense computation for the nonlinear transformation of the reservoir input, i.e. activating the reservoir. Configuring physical nonlinear networks as the reservoir and employing the physical nonlinearity for the reservoir activation is an emergent solution to address the challenge. In this work, we analyze the feasibility of harnessing the nonlinearity from solution-processed molybdenum disulfide (MoS2) for reservoir activation. We fit the high-order nonlinearity, achieved by Stark modulation of MoS2, as the activation function to facilitate implementation of a reservoir computing model. Due to the high-order nonlinearity, the model can achieve long-term synchronization and robust generalization for complex dynamical system regression. As a potential application exploring this ability, we appoint the model to generate chaotic random numbers for secure data encryption. Given this reservoir activation capability, and the scalability of solution-processed MoS2, our results suggest the potential for realizing physical reservoir computing with solution-processed MoS2.


---
# Multiscale Physics-Informed Neural Networks for the Inverse Design of Hyperuniform Optical Materials

## 用于超均匀光学材料逆设计的多尺度物理通知神经网络

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07878

arXiv:2405.07878v4 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: In this article, we employ multiscale physics-informed neural networks (MscalePINNs) for the inverse design of finite-size photonic materials with stealthy hyperuniform (SHU) disordered geometries. Specifically, we show that MscalePINNs can capture the fast spatial variations of complex fields scattered by arrays of dielectric nanocylinders arranged according to isotropic SHU point patterns, thus enabling a systematic methodology to inversely retrieve their effective dielectric profiles. Our approach extends the recently developed high-frequency homogenization theory of hyperuniform media and retrieves more general permittivity profiles for applications-relevant finite-size SHU systems, unveiling unique features related to their isotropic nature. In particular, we numerically corroborate the existence of a transparency region beyond the long-wavelength approximation, enabling effective and isotropic homogenization even without disorder-averaging, in contrast to the case of uncorrelated Poisson random patterns. The flexible multiscale network approach introduced here enables the efficient inverse design of more general effective media and finite-size optical metamaterials with isotropic electromagnetic responses beyond the limitations of traditional homogenization theories.


---
# Assisting Tibetan Students in Learning Quantum Mechanics via Mathematica

## 通过Mathematica帮助藏族学生学习量子力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.18810

arXiv:2406.18810v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Undergraduate students of physics in Tibet have great difficulty learning quantum mechanics (QM). We attempt to use PER-based methods to help Tibetan students learn QM. In this preliminary study, we incorporate Mathematica in a QM course at Tibet University and record students' learning experiences. Tibetan students tend to have subjective feelings of learning Mathematica, whereas Han students (majority) are more focused on the operational techniques of Mathematica. The results also suggest that both Tibetan students and Han students show limited improvement in time-independent Schrodinger equations after learning QM with Mathematica. Further effort is needed to improve the academic literacy skills of physics students in Tibet.


---
# Dynamic Deep Learning Based Super-Resolution For The Shallow Water Equations

## 基于动态深度学习的浅水方程超分辨率研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06400

arXiv:2404.06400v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Using the nonlinear shallow water equations as benchmark, we demonstrate that a simulation with the ICON-O ocean model with a 20km resolution that is frequently corrected by a U-net-type neural network can achieve discretization errors of a simulation with 10km resolution. The network, originally developed for image-based super-resolution in post-processing, is trained to compute the difference between solutions on both meshes and is used to correct the coarse mesh every 12h. Our setup is the Galewsky test case, modeling transition of a barotropic instability into turbulent flow. We show that the ML-corrected coarse resolution run correctly maintains a balance flow and captures the transition to turbulence in line with the higher resolution simulation. After 8 day of simulation, the $L_2$-error of the corrected run is similar to a simulation run on the finer mesh. While mass is conserved in the corrected runs, we observe some spurious generation of kinetic energy.


---
# Alternators For Sequence Modeling

## 用于序列建模的交流发电机

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.11848

arXiv:2405.11848v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: This paper introduces alternators, a novel family of non-Markovian dynamical models for sequences. An alternator features two neural networks: the observation trajectory network (OTN) and the feature trajectory network (FTN). The OTN and the FTN work in conjunction, alternating between outputting samples in the observation space and some feature space, respectively, over a cycle. The parameters of the OTN and the FTN are not time-dependent and are learned via a minimum cross-entropy criterion over the trajectories. Alternators are versatile. They can be used as dynamical latent-variable generative models or as sequence-to-sequence predictors. Alternators can uncover the latent dynamics underlying complex sequential data, accurately forecast and impute missing data, and sample new trajectories. We showcase the capabilities of alternators in three applications. We first used alternators to model the Lorenz equations, often used to describe chaotic behavior. We then applied alternators to Neuroscience, to map brain activity to physical activity. Finally, we applied alternators to Climate Science, focusing on sea-surface temperature forecasting. In all our experiments, we found alternators are stable to train, fast to sample from, yield high-quality generated samples and latent variables, and often outperform strong baselines such as Mambas, neural ODEs, and diffusion models in the domains we studied.


---
# Scale-free behavior of weight distributions of connectomes

## 连接体重量分布的无标度行为

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.17220

arXiv:2407.17220v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: To determine the precise link between anatomical structure and function, brain studies primarily concentrate on the anatomical wiring of the brain and its topological properties. In this work, we investigate the weighted degree and connection length distributions of the KKI-113 and KKI-18 human connectomes, the fruit fly, and of the mouse retina. We found that the node strength (weighted degree) distribution behavior differs depending on the considered scale. On the global scale, the distributions are found to follow a power-law behavior, with a roughly universal exponent close to 3. However, this behavior breaks at the local scale as the node strength distributions of the KKI-18 follow a stretched exponential, and the fly and mouse retina follow the lognormal distribution, respectively which are indicative of underlying random multiplicative processes and underpins non-locality of learning in a brain close to the critical state. However, for the case of the KKI-113 and the H01 human (1mm$^3$) datasets, the local weighted degree distributions follow an exponentially truncated power-law, which may hint at the fact that the critical learning mechanism may have manifested at the node level too.


---
# PINNfluence: Influence Functions for Physics-Informed Neural Networks

## PINNfluence: 物理信息神经网络的影响函数

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.08958

arXiv:2409.08958v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Recently, physics-informed neural networks (PINNs) have emerged as a flexible and promising application of deep learning to partial differential equations in the physical sciences. While offering strong performance and competitive inference speeds on forward and inverse problems, their black-box nature limits interpretability, particularly regarding alignment with expected physical behavior. In the present work, we explore the application of influence functions (IFs) to validate and debug PINNs post-hoc. Specifically, we apply variations of IF-based indicators to gauge the influence of different types of collocation points on the prediction of PINNs applied to a 2D Navier-Stokes fluid flow problem. Our results demonstrate how IFs can be adapted to PINNs to reveal the potential for further studies. The code is publicly available at https://github.com/aleks-krasowski/PINNfluence.


---
# Advancing Aqueous Solubility Prediction: A Machine Learning Approach for Organic Compounds Using a Curated Dataset

## 推进水溶性预测: 使用精选数据集的有机化合物机器学习方法

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-3ld27?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Aqueous solubility is one key property of a chemical compound that determines its possible use in different applications from drug development to materials sciences. In this work, we present an aqueous solubility prediction study that leverages a curated dataset merged from four distinct sources. This unified dataset encompasses a diverse range of organic compounds, providing a robust foundation for our investigation of solubility prediction. Our approach involves employing a variety of machine learning and deep learning models that combine an extensive array of chemical descriptors, fingerprints, and functional groups. This methodology is designed to address the complexities of solubility prediction, and it is tailored to achieve high accuracy and generalization. We tested the finalized model on a diverse dataset of 1282 unique organic compounds from the Husskonnen dataset. The results of our analysis demonstrate the success of our model, which,  given an  R2 value of 0.92 and an MAE value of 0.40, outperforms existing prediction methods for aqueous solubility on one of the most diverse datasets in the field.


---
# Data-driven automatic synthesis planning: Synthesis routes of S-Zanubrutinib identified with CDI CASP

## 数据驱动的自动合成计划: 用CDI CASP确定的s-zanubrutinib的合成路线

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-f0kcq?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Advances in computer-assisted synthesis planning (CASP) are revolutionising how new functional molecules in many chemistry-using industries are being developed. CASP tools allow to assemble and analyse prior knowledge of a specified chemical system (a molecule, a reaction, a synthesis route), to generate hypotheses on experimental campaigns that could either be performed manually or using automated reaction systems. Advanced CASP tools are combining data science, chemoinformatics, machine learning and physical models-based predictive tools. Compared to expert-based synthesis planning, the power of CASP techniques allows for faster and more comprehensive planning, which could significantly improve the efficiencies of chemical process/product development.
This White Paper describes a recent collaboration project between Shionogi & Co. Ltd. and Chemical Data Intelligence (CDI) Ltd. The CASP system developed by CDI (CDI-CASP) was tested in developing a new synthesis of S-Zanubrutinib, a drug for lymphoma treatment. Three types of search in CDI-CASP - “search synthesis routes”, “search analogue routes” and “search chiral reactions” - were iteratively applied for synthesis planning. Setting search criteria requires expert involvement. This ‘human in the middle’ interactive strategy leads to a shorter, greener, and more efficient synthesis route compared to the benchmark route filed in a patent.


---
# Machine learning prediction of the most intense peak 
of the absorption spectra of organic molecules

## 最强烈峰值的机器学习预测
有机分子的吸收光谱

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-xkt1j-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Accurate knowledge of electronic molecular properties of excited states is fundamental for understanding the behavior of functional materials for organic electronics and sensors. In this work, we focus on determining the properties of the most intense peak in the electronic absorption spectra of organic molecules. For this purpose, we employed the quantum chemistry QM-symex dataset, which has approximately 173,000 organic molecules and time-dependent DFT (TD-DFT) data of the first ten electronic absorption transitions. Each one is identified by its Cartesian coordinates. From data in the original QM-symex, we built a new dataset named QM-symex-modif that contains molecules in Simplified Molecular Input Line Entry System (SMILES) format and properties related to the main electronic transition. We then employed twenty machine learning (ML) algorithms to investigate oscillator strengths, excitation energies, transition orbitals, and the highest occupied molecular orbitals (HOMOs). As inputs for the ML algorithms, we used several chemical descriptors for each molecule generated in the RDKit tool employing the corresponding SMILES format. The generated input descriptors significantly improved the accuracy of the ML predictions for these key photophysical properties. Very good mean absolute errors (MAEs) were obtained for the test set composed of 45,056 molecules, namely, an MAE of 0.035 for oscillator strengths, 0.09 eV for excitation energies, 1.24 and 0.62 for the initial and final transition molecular orbital (MO) numbers (i.e., for each molecule, their position in the MO listing) respectively, and 0.014 for HOMO numbers, with R² values consistently exceeding 0.94, thus demonstrating the accuracy of the models. Additionally, a Shapley additive explanation (SHAP) analysis was carried out to evaluate the importance of the input parameters for the investigated ML models. We found several interesting relationships involving the input parameters. In particular, molecular weight holds significant importance in our ML models for determining the target HOMO numbers and the transition orbitals.


---
# Learning A Hierarchical Graph Autoregression Model for Semi-template Molecular Retrosynthesis

## 学习半模板分子逆向合成的层次图自回归模型

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-gqp7b?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

As a significant task of pharmaceutical and chemical engineering, molecular retrosynthesis aims at predicting candidate reactants from predefined products. Treating this challenging task as a conditional generative modeling problem, we propose a hierarchical graph autoregression (HGAR) model and its pretraining-assisted multi-task learning paradigm, leading to an effective semi-template molecular retrosynthesis method. Given a product, we first construct a hierarchical graph by connecting the junction tree of its motifs to the atom-level molecular graph. Our HGAR model embeds the hierarchical graph in the motif and atom levels, respectively.  The atom-level embeddings are applied to predict reaction centers and derive synthons from the product.  The motif-level embeddings are applied to predict motifs and complete the corresponding synthons autoregressive, leading to the target reactants. We first pretrain the model on PCQM4M-LSC and then fine-tune it on the USPTO retrosynthesis datasets, leading to a model with good generalization power. Experiments show that our HGAR outperforms many representative molecular retrosynthesis methods, especially those semi-template ones, indicating its feasibility and effectiveness in practice.


---
# Nuclear Quantum Effects Across Chemical Space

## 跨化学空间的核量子效应

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-srjwx?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Nuclear quantum effects (NQEs) are important in many physical and chemical processes--particularly those involving lighter nuclei or occurring at low temperatures. Nevertheless, NQEs have been carefully quantified in few systems, such as water, and their importance is rarely considered. Here, using path-integral molecular dynamics, we critically examine NQEs for a range of molecular properties (e.g., density, thermal expansion coefficients, isothermal compressibility, static dielectric constant, and the heat of vaporization) across 87 molecular liquids. We discover substantial NQEs in this broad chemical space, with molar volumes exhibiting differences of up to 5% between classical and quantum treatments; similar magnitudes are revealed in equilibrium isotope effects from deuteration. Using machine learning, we identify that four molecular properties that are readily known or easily computed with classical simulations—density, molar mass, hydrogen density, and thermal expansion coefficient—are strong predictors of NQEs. Further data-driven analysis reveals how molecular factors, such as branching and heteroatom composition, influence intermolecular interactions and fluid stability and thereby affect observed NQEs.  This work offers new insights into the relationship between NQEs and molecular chemistry and refines expectations for when rigorous treatment of NQEs is necessary.


---
# Application of Intersectionality Framework and Area-level Indicators in Machine Learning Analysis of Depression Disparities in All of Us Research Program Data

## 交叉性框架和区域级指标在美国所有研究计划数据中抑郁症差异的机器学习分析中的应用

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5536130/latest

Background/objective: Depression is a complex mental health disorder influenced by various social determinants of health (SDOH) at individual and community levels. Area-level factors and intersectionality framework, which considers overlapping personal identities, are used in this paper to get a nuanced picture of depression disparities.Methods This cross-sectional study uses electronic health records data from the All of Us research network. Our study cohort includes 20,042 individuals who completed the SDOH surveys in All of Us and had at least one in-patient visit, with 27.3% diagnosed with depression since 2020. We used depression diagnosis as an outcome, while independent variables include US Religious Census and American urvey responses, area-level variables, sociodemographic characteristics: age group, income, gender, sexual orientation, immigration status, marital status, and race/ethnicity &amp;ndash; and the interactions of the latter with each other and with other variables. The association between depression diagnosis and the variables is reported by fitting the logistic regression model on the subset of variables identified by LASSO method.Results The analysis revealed that area-level indicators, such as religious adherence and childbirth rates, significantly influenced depression outcomes when interacting with personal identity variables: area-level religious adherence was associated with increased depression odds for women (OR 1.33, 95% CI 1.15&amp;ndash;1.54) and non-binary individuals (OR 3.70, 95% CI 1.03&amp;ndash;13.31). Overlapping identities, such as younger adults unemployed for less than a year and never married Middle Eastern and North African participants showed higher depression odds (OR 2.3, 95% CI 1.06&amp;ndash;4.99, and OR 3.35, 95% CI 1.19&amp;ndash;9.45, respectively).Discussion/Conclusion: The findings underscore the importance of considering all types of factors: individual, area-level, and intersectional in depression research.


---
# Recent Advancements in Grad-CAM and variants: Enhancing Brain Tumor Detection, Segmentation, and Classification

## Grad-cam和变体的最新进展: 增强脑肿瘤检测，分割和分类

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5485128/latest

Brain tumors, caused by abnormal tissue growth in the brain, can significantly impair brain functions and pose significant health risks. As the tumor progresses to higher stages, the patient's prognosis and survival decline, resulting in a high mortality rate. With advances in medical imaging, particularly the use of MRI, AI approaches have emerged as powerful tools for detecting, segmenting, and classifying brain tumors. CNN and hybrid models such as Vision Transformers (ViTs) have provided promising insights in this area. Despite their high accuracy, but the reasoning behind the prediction often remained unanswered. AI models lack transparency and interpretability, paving the way for the development of explainable AI methods in diagnosing brain diseases. In recent years, gradient weighted class activation mapping (Grad-CAM) and its variants have emerged as powerful techniques for visualizing and interpreting deep learning models in medical imaging tasks, including brain tumor detection, segmentation, and classification. This paper provides a comprehensive overview of Grad-CAM and its improvements, with particular emphasis on their applications in brain tumor analysis. In this article, we reviewed the 31 research papers based on data from various research databases. This review highlights the importance of interpretability in deep learning for clinical applications and explores how Grad-CAM can complement traditional metrics to provide deeper insights into model decisions. The results provide valuable guidance for researchers developing explainable AI frameworks for accelerating brain tumor analysis, with the objective of developing trust, efficiency and clinical utility in resource-limited settings.


---
# TIMELESS as a Prognostic Biomarker and Therapeutic Target in Gastric Cancer

## 永恒作为胃癌的预后生物标志物和治疗靶点

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5397080/latest

Background Gastric cancer, a prevalent malignancy, exhibits intricate etiological and pathological characteristics. Recent insights into the dysregulation of clock genes offer novel avenues for diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis in patients with gastric cancer. Methods: This study leveraged machine learning, Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA), immune infiltration analysis, survival prognosis analysis, drug sensitivity analysis, and in vitro experiments to elucidate the role of core clock genes in gastric cancer. Results: By integrating TCGA, GEO datasets, and NCBI database, we identified 29 differentially expressed clock genes. Utilization of four machine learning algorithms revealed TIMELESS and BHLHE41 as critical genes, with TIMELESS (AUC, 0.802) showing enhanced diagnostic potential for GC. High levels of TIMELESS expression in gastric cancer were associated with poor tumor prognosis and immune cell infiltration. We identified a targeted interaction between TIMELESS and the pyroptosis-related molecule CASP8, suggesting their collaborative involvement in gastric cancer pathogenesis. Moreover, Bortezomib was found to be a potential targeted therapy for TIMELESS in gastric cancer. Conclusion: TIMELESS emerges as a significant biomarker and therapeutic target in gastric cancer, with considerable implications for patient prognosis and treatment.


---
# Integrating Phenomenon-Based Learning and GIS to Improve Geo-Literacy and Student Engagement: An Action Research Approach

## 整合基于现象的学习和GIS以提高地理素养和学生参与度: 一种行动研究方法

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5410327/latest

Despite the individual merits of Phenomenon-Based Learning (PhenoBL) and Geographic Information Systems (GIS) in improving geographic comprehension, limited research exists on their combined impact in secondary geography teaching, particularly in the Thai educational context. This study investigated the integration of PhenoBL and GIS to enhance student engagement and geo-literacy among 30 Grade 8 students in Thailand through an action research design with three iterative cycles over eight weeks. The intervention, focusing on urbanization and environmental sustainability, utilized Google Maps as a GIS tool for spatial analysis. Data collection included geo-literacy tests, student engagement surveys, and classroom observations, analyzed through paired t-tests and Pearson correlation analyses. Results demonstrated significant improvements in geo-literacy scores (from 59.5&amp;ndash;72.5%, p&amp;thinsp;&amp;lt;&amp;thinsp;0.01) and increases across all engagement dimensions (behavioral, emotional, and cognitive). Correlation analyses revealed a significant positive relationship between emotional engagement and geo-literacy improvement (r&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.309, p&amp;thinsp;&amp;lt;&amp;thinsp;0.05), while behavioral and cognitive engagement showed no significant correlations with geo-literacy gains. This suggests that emotional connection to learning activities may play a particularly important role in geographic understanding. Qualitative observations documented students&amp;rsquo; progressive development of independence and confidence in using GIS tools. These findings provide valuable insights for educators and policymakers implementing technology-enhanced, inquiry-based learning models in geography education, while highlighting the importance of nurturing students' emotional engagement alongside structured support in GIS integration.


---
# Prediction of urinary tract infection using machine learning methods-A study for finding the most-informative variables

## 使用机器学习方法预测尿路感染-寻找最有用变量的研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5107375/latest

Background-Urinary tract infection (UTI) is a frequent health-threatening condition. Early reliable diagnosis of UTI helps to prevent misuse or overuse of antibiotics and hence prevent antibiotic resistance. The gold standard for UTI diagnosis is urinalysis which is a time-consuming and also an error prone method. In this regard, complementary methods are demanded. In the recent decade, machine learning strategies that employ mathematical models on a dataset to extract the most-informative hidden information are the center of interest for prediction and diagnosis purposes.&amp;nbsp;
Method-In this study, machine learning approaches were used for finding the important variables for a reliable prediction of UTI. Several types of intelligent machines including classical and deep learning tools were used for this purpose.&amp;nbsp;
Results- Eighteen selected features from urine test, blood test and demographic data were selected as the most-informative. Factors extracted from urine such as WBC, nitrite, leukocyte, clarity, color, blood, bilirubin, urobilinogen, and factors extracted from blood test like mean platelet volume, lymphocyte, glucose, red blood cell distribution width, and potassium, demographic data such as age, gender and previous use of antibiotics are the determinative factors for UTI prediction. An ensemble combination of XGBoost, decision tree, and light gradient boosting machines with a voting scheme obtained the highest accuracy for UTI prediction (AUC: 88.53 (0.25), accuracy: 85.64 (0.20)%), according to the selected feature. Furthermore, the results showed the importance of gender and age for UTI prediction.&amp;nbsp;
Conclusion-This study highlighted the potential of machine learning for UTI prediction.


---
# Improving Oil Pipeline Surveillance with a Novel 3D Drone Simulation Using Dynamically Constrained Accumulative Membership Fuzzy Logicalgorithm (Dcamfl) for Crack Detection

## 使用动态约束累积隶属度模糊逻辑算法 (Dcamfl) 进行裂纹检测，通过新颖的3D无人机仿真来改善石油管道监视

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5460884/latest

Cracks in oil pipelines pose significant risks to the environment, public safety, and the overall integrity of the infrastructure. In this paper, we propose a novel approach for crack detection in oil pipes using a combination of 3D drone simulation, Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) feature extraction, and the Dynamically Constrained Accumulative Membership Fuzzy Logic Algorithm (DCAMFL). The algorithm leverages the strengths of CNNs in extracting discriminative features from images and the DCAMFL's ability to handle uncertainties and overlapping linguistic variables. We evaluated the proposed algorithm on a comprehensive dataset containing images of cracked oil pipes, achieving remarkable results. The precision, recall, and F1-score for crack detection were found to be 96.5%, 97.3%, and 95.6%, respectively. These high-performance metrics demonstrate the algorithm's accuracy and reliability in identifying and classifying cracks. Our findings highlight the effectiveness of integrating advanced simulation techniques, deep learning, and fuzzy logic for crack detection in oil pipelines. The proposed algorithm holds promise for enhancing pipeline surveillance, improving safety measures, and extending the lifespan of oil infrastructure. Future work involves expanding the dataset, fine-tuning the CNN architecture, and validating the algorithm on large-scale pipelines to further enhance its performance and applicability.


---
# Transparelect: A Comprehensive Approach to Biometric-Enabled Electronic Voting

## Transparlect: 一种基于生物特征的电子投票的综合方法

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5488205/latest

Ensuring fair and transparent elections is reliant on the authenticity of voters and the purity of ballots cast. This paper discusses the way that double voting and fraudulently verifying voters can be solved with biometric technologies incorporated together with machine learning. To do this, a dual authentication system is proposed which uses a fingerprint sensor for utmost accuracy during identification, coupled with face recognition in order to minimize instances of dual registration in traditional (Electronic Voting Machine) EVM. The system continuously checks the identities of individual voters while relaying the details of their verification process to a central control unit; this increases both effectiveness and safety. Besides, this research develops as well as tests algorithms of machine learning where Neural Networks (NN) are used to estimate turnout percentages. In addition, techniques associated to data pre-processing have been utilized in order to improve accuracy. Consequently, it shows how proposed NN based models work when predicting voting results hence contributing towards better secured and freer from any form manipulation polling systems.


---
# Optimizing Credit Card Fraud Detection with Random Forests and SMOTE

## 使用随机森林和SMOTE优化信用卡欺诈检测

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5539711/latest

Credit card fraud is a growing concern in the financial industry, necessitating the development of efficient detection methods to minimize financial losses. In this project, we built a machine learning-based system to detect fraudulent transactions using a publicly available dataset of credit card transactions. The dataset, highly imbalanced with fraudulent transactions representing less than 0.2% of the total, was processed using techniques like Synthetic Minority Over-sampling Technique (SMOTE) to handle class imbalance. Various classification algorithms, including Logistic Regression, Random Forest, and Neural Networks, were evaluated to determine their effectiveness in identifying fraudulent activities. The Random Forest model emerged as the best performing algorithm with an accuracy of 99.5% and a high recall score, indicating its robustness in detecting fraudulent transactions. This system can be deployed in real-time financial systems to enhance fraud prevention mechanisms and ensure secure financial transactions.


---
# Using virtual reality to enhance mobility, safety, and equity for persons with vision loss in urban environments

## 使用虚拟现实来增强城市环境中视力丧失者的机动性，安全性和公平性

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5434781/latest

This study explores the use of virtual reality (VR) as an innovative tool to enhance awareness, acceptance, and understanding of accessibility for persons with vision loss (VL). Through a VR-based workshop developed in collaboration with New York City's Department Of Transportation, participants experienced immersive simulations of VL and and related immersive mobility challenges. The methodology included pre- and post-intervention questionnaires, assessing changes in participants&rsquo; knowledge, confidence, and perception. Participants included urban planners, designers, and architects. Results showed a significant increase in awareness of VL-related challenges that affect design guidelines, as well as improved confidence in addressing such challenges. Participants also expressed strong support for VR as a pedagogical tool, noting its potential for reshaping professional practices, improving capacity building, and enhancing inclusive design. The study demonstrates the effectiveness of VR as an experiential learning platform, fostering empathy and a long-term commitment to integrating VL considerations into urban design. These findings highlight the transformative potential of VR in advancing equity and accessibility in urban environments.


---
# Object Detection Based on Enhancement of Subtle Features in Low-Illumination Images

## 基于低照度图像细微特征增强的目标检测

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5459081/latest

This study discusses the issue of target detection in low-light environments, which is of great significance for improving traffic safety, enhancing the perception capabilities of autonomous driving, and intelligent surveillance systems. Addressing the challenges of image detection under low-light conditions, such as low brightness, weak contrast, and noise interference, this paper selects the YOLOv5 model for improvement research and primarily proposes a new type of attention mechanism, ICA, which integrates IRMB and CA attention mechanisms to more accurately identify inconspicuous features and reduce the interference of irrelevant information. Additionally, to address contrast issues caused by uneven lighting, this paper replaces the original YOLOv5 up-sampling operator with the CARAFE operator, which dynamically generates adaptive up-sampling kernels through content-aware methods and aggregates contextual information within a larger receptive field, thereby enhancing the model's object recognition capabilities. Lastly, to cope with the variability of objects in low-light environments, this paper introduces the ASFF module, which further enhances the model's detection performance for multi-scale targets by adaptively learning the fusion weights of each scale feature map. Through multiple training sessions, more suitable parameter settings for training are found, further enhancing the model's performance. The proposed model is named YOLOV5-ICAs.


---
# Holistic Interference Management for Wireless Networks in the Era of Artificial Intelligence

## 人工智能时代的无线网络整体干扰管理

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5481165/latest

Future networks are expected to exhibit intense use of artificial intelligence due to the increasing use of intelligent devices in domestic and industrial life. The intelligent devices will communicate with networks and exchange information about expected performance, available cost packages, and availability of network resources along the destination. Therefore, networks need intelligent techniques to learn the state of various network functions and resources and adjust their configurations in an automated way. Machine learning techniques allow the networks to realize such learning and automate the optimization of the network functions and resources. Several techniques have been discussed in the literature to optimize and manage interference in radio networks. However, the existing approaches generally optimize one or a few aspects in a stand-alone fashion. Recently introduced global learning and deep holistic learning techniques can optimize the network function considering all known aspects. This article proposes a novel holistic learning and optimization technique for interference management in wireless networks. It uses a novel objective functions-based feature engineering process to capture the effects of various parameters and actions related to interference management. Transfer learning reduces computational complexity, and ensemble learning aggregates knowledge from base learners corresponding to each objective function. The experimental network is constructed using the NS3 LENA module, and standard Python libraries are used to implement the base learners and proposed model. It uses several base learners that learn the information from possible interference variables and determine the optimal actions across the cells. The experimental results show that the holistic learning-based approach efficiently manages the interference, improves the system capacity, and reduces the interference caused by user arrivals twofold compared to the state-of-the-art techniques.


---
# Management and protection of soil resources using smart technologies to measure and predict erosion mechanism

## 利用智能技术测量和预测侵蚀机理管理和保护土壤资源

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5352456/latest

Soil is a critical natural resource, and accurate estimation of soil erosion is vital for the optimal management and development of soil resources. Soil erosion assessment is necessary for long-term conservation plans, but the process can be expensive and time-consuming over large areas. It is imperative to examine the impact of water-induced soil erosion on cultivated lands, as it can cause significant damage. This study evaluates the effectiveness of four data-driven approaches (biogeography-based optimization, earthworm optimization algorithm, symbiotic organisms search, and whale optimization algorithm) combined with artificial neural network models in estimating soil erosion. The examined criteria include 14 geographic and environmental criteria, and the data used in a ratio of 70 to 30 for training and testing operations. And its results were measured by AUC values. The evaluation of AUC accuracy indices revealed compelling results. Specifically, in the case of SOS-MLP, the highest AUC values were observed, reaching 0.9973 for test data and 0.9296 for train data. Conversely, for WOA-MLP, the AUC values obtained were slightly lower but still notable, registering at 0.9809 for test data and 0.959 for train data. These values were also calculated for BBO-MLP (0.999 and 0.9327) and EWA-MLP (0.9304 and 0.9296) in the training and testing phases, respectively. Results showed that all four methods could successfully evaluate erosion susceptibility according to AUC values greater than 0.92, especially the BBO-MLP with the highest AUC values. Therefore, the findings of this study have shown that the combined optimization algorithms and Machine Learning used in this research have a suitable ability to optimize the artificial neural network and are very useful for identifying areas sensitive to erosion.


---
# Integration of Artificial Intelligence Algorithms for Defect Detection and Shape Recognition in Mechanical Quality Control

## 机械质量控制中缺陷检测和形状识别的人工智能算法集成

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5427157/latest

The integration of artificial intelligence algorithms for defect detection and shape recognition in the automotive industry is rooted in machine learning principles. Neural networks play a pivotal role in this domain, renowned for their effectiveness in tasks such as pattern recognition and data analysis. These systems are indispensable within the automotive industry and beyond, crucial for interpreting datasets and enabling machines to identify objects and defects in images or videos based on their geometrical and structural properties. Techniques for defect analysis, including convolutional neural network (CNN) and fuzzy min-max classifier (FMMC) methods, are employed.
In the context of quality control, where assessing shape is paramount, image processing techniques such as zoning, Loci features, profile projection, Freeman chain code, and histogram of oriented gradients (HOG) are utilized. These methods facilitate the analysis of physical shapes and surface characteristics, ensuring that automotive parts satisfy stringent quality standards. Experimental results underscore the efficacy of CNN combined with FMMC, demonstrating superior accuracy of 97% compared to traditional image analysis methods. This approach highlights the capability of CNN and FMMC to enhance the precision and reliability of shape recognition through advanced image analysis, thereby contributing to improved quality control measures in the automotive industry.


---
# A Novel Hybrid Approach for Remaining Useful Life and Short Term Capacity Prediction of Lithium- ion Batteries

## 一种用于锂离子电池剩余使用寿命和短期容量预测的新型混合方法

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5416211/latest

Accurately determining the remaining usable life of lithium-ion batteries is essential for effective battery management. This paper presents a novel hybrid method for predicting both the Remaining Useful Life (RUL) and short-term capacity of batteries, known as ZOA-MSVM, which integrates the Zebra Optimization Algorithm (ZOA) with Multi-kernel Support Vector Machine (MSVM). The objective of the paper is to provide precise forecasts of future capacities and RUL for lithium-ion batteries (LIBs) while effectively managing uncertainty. The ZOA-MSVM model is trained using data from LIBs, leveraging the Zebra Optimization Algorithm to identify optimal kernel parameters, penalty factors, and weight coefficients for the MSVM model. This trained model predicts battery capacity and RUL by considering key factors such as capacity, current, and voltage during discharge operations. When compared to existing techniques, including artificial neural networks (ANN), ant lion optimizer-optimized ANN, and adaptive network-based fuzzy inference systems, the ZOA-MSVM method demonstrates improved performance with reduced errors during both charging and discharging. Notably, the uncertainty intervals produced by the ZOA-MSVM technique often encompass the actual remaining life of the battery, and its charging error is lower than that of other current methods. Utilizing the NASA battery dataset, an observed data sequence is generated for regression prediction. Results indicate that the enhanced algorithm significantly improves prediction accuracy and generalization ability, while also reducing training time and computational complexity.


---
# Evaluating and Enhancing Large Language Models for Conversational Reasoning on Knowledge Graphs

## 评估和增强用于知识图上会话推理的大型语言模型

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5497610/latest

The development of large language models (LLMs) has been catalyzed by advancements in pre-training techniques. These models have demonstrated robust reasoning capabilities through manually designed prompts. In this work, we evaluate the conversational reasoning capabilities of the current state-of-the-art LLM (GPT-4) on knowledge graphs (KGs). However, the performance of LLMs is constrained due to a lack of KG environment awareness and the difficulties in developing effective optimization mechanisms for intermediary reasoning stages. We further introduce LLM-ARK, a LLM grounded KG reasoning agent designed to deliver precise and adaptable predictions on KG paths. LLM-ARK leverages Full Textual Environment (FTE) prompt to assimilate state information within each reasoning step. We reframe the challenge of multi-hop reasoning on the KG as a sequential decision-making task. Utilizing the Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) online policy gradient reinforcement learning algorithm, our model is optimized to learn from rich reward signals. Additionally, we conduct an evaluation of our model and GPT-4 on the OpenDialKG dataset. The experimental results reveal that LLaMA-2-7B-ARK outperforms the current state-of-the-art model by 5.28 percentage points, with a performance rate of 36.39% on the target@1 evaluation metric. Meanwhile, GPT-4 scored 14.91%, further demonstrating the effectiveness of our method.


---
# Optimized Feature Selection and Enhanced Recurrent Neural Network for Financial Fraud Detection

## 用于金融欺诈检测的优化特征选择和增强的递归神经网络

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5147684/latest

Financial fraud presents a significant challenge worldwide, impeding the steady growth of financial markets. However, detecting fraud is complicated by an imbalanced dataset, where the number of legitimate transactions fraudulent ones. To address this issue, intelligent financial statement fraud detection solutions have been industrialised to assist stakeholders in making informed decisions. This study proposes a novel approach to fraud detection using a Modified Uni-directional Deep-Recurrent Neural Network (MDRNN) model. The model is augmented by the Artificial Rabbit Optimization Algorithm (AROA) to enhance classification accuracy by selecting relevant features. Additionally, the parameters of the MDRNN model were optimized using the Red Fox Optimization (RFO) model. A comparative analysis between the proposed method and existing approaches was conducted and it proved greater efficiency compared to other techniques. The model accomplished an accuracy of 95.65% and identified 591 fraudulent transactions correctly. The outcome of this study would contribute to the improvement of classification accuracy, reduction of misclassification of credit card transactions, and associated cost, and enhancement of financial transaction security.


---
# An Innovative Ensemble Approach of Deep Learning Models with Soft Computing Techniques for GIS-based drought-zonation mapping in Rarh Region, West Bengal

## 具有软计算技术的深度学习模型的创新集成方法，用于西孟加拉邦Rarh地区基于GIS的干旱分区映射

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5447434/latest

Drought is a complex natural disaster impacting ecosystems and communities, making its identification crucial for mitigation efforts. This study aimed to assess drought scenarios in the Rarh Region of West Bengal at 3-, 6-, and 12-month intervals. The region is an amalgamation of the plateau and Gangetic delta, facing a decreasing rainfall trend, particularly in Birbhum and Purba Bardhhaman districts. Purba Bardhhaman, known for its good track of rice production, is now facing severe drought, which is a concerning matter. The study assessed their collinearity by evaluating 27 drought assessment variables grouped into meteorological, agricultural, hydrological, and socio-economic facets. A Multi-Layer Perceptron Neural Network (MLP NN) was applied as a benchmark, followed by a DenseNet neural network. Finally, a Hybrid Deep Learning Ensemble model was developed to compare precision and create a drought-prone map. Results indicated that, on average, 26.66% of the region is highly drought-prone at a 3-month interval, 20% at 6 months, and 25% at 12 months. The models were validated using ROC-AUC, Standard Error, and Asymptotic Significance. The Hybrid Deep Learning Ensemble model showed the highest accuracy, achieving 94.2%, 94.3%, and 95.3% at 3-, 6-, and 12-month intervals, respectively. This research provides valuable insights for policymakers in West Bengal to address the increasing drought risks in the region.


---
# A Fused Power Spectrum based Feature Selection to Identify Schizophrenia from EEG Signals using Deep Learning Models - An Experimental Study

## 基于融合功率谱的特征选择，使用深度学习模型从脑电信号中识别精神分裂症-一项实验研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5041124/latest

The brain, a complex and important organ in the human body, is crucial for all our body processes. For the diagnosis and ongoing monitoring of a wide spectrum of brain disorders, accurate and early detection of the proper disorder from neurophysiological monitoring methods is essential. The importance of identification of disorders like Schizophrenia in clinical practice is examined in this research, along with the difficulties in attaining accurate results, particularly when working with small structures and precise details. A novel pre-processing methodology in this stream has been implemented for further feature and knowledge extraction and subsequent image generation. With their ability to automatically extract pertinent features from input images, CNN has made a significant advancement in the domain of image classification.This study presents and investigates in details the effect of our pre-processing on various well-known CNN based architectures. Various models like DenseNet, ResNet, MobileNet, NasNet, EfficientNet and ConvNext families along with Xception, InceptionV3 and InceptionResNetV2 models have been taken into consideration. These models have become optimal approaches to various classification tasks, each providing certain benefits and addressing particular difficulties. We have conducted this research on EEG data from a standard dataset, namely, IBIB PAN - Department of Methods of Brain Imaging and Functional Research of Nervous System dataset. This study presents a thorough review of the performance of different CNN based models and their variants on our preprocessed and generated images. On comparison with state-of-the-art results we have observed that using this approach, almost all our models have exceeded the same. Medical professionals and researchers can use the outcomes of these techniques for better diagnosis and treatment planning in the field of brain disorders. Our codes will be made available at: \href{https://github.com/SuryaMajumder/Brain-EEG-Signal-Analysis---Experimental-Study}{[Link]}


---
# Introducing a Multi-Dimensional Cryptographic Behavioral Analysis Framework for Ransomware Detection

## 引入用于勒索软件检测的多维密码行为分析框架

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5540978/latest

Effective detection mechanisms are crucial in addressing the growing sophistication and frequency of ransomware attacks. The proposed Multi-Dimensional Cryptographic Behavioral Analysis framework leverages advanced analytical techniques to identify and classify malicious activities through the examination of unique cryptographic and behavioral signatures. By focusing on encryption processes, file system interactions, and anomalous network behaviors, the framework achieves a comprehensive understanding of ransomware operations. A hybrid detection algorithm integrates statistical inference with machine learning, ensuring adaptability to emerging ransomware variants while maintaining low false positive rates. Experimental evaluation demonstrates the framework's superior accuracy and robustness compared to conventional detection approaches, particularly in distinguishing between legitimate and malicious operations. Cryptographic feature analysis highlights distinct behavioral patterns among ransomware families, enabling precise identification through a combination of mathematical modeling and ensemble learning techniques. Scalability and computational efficiency are achieved through an optimized multi-dimensional pipeline, addressing challenges inherent in real-time operational environments. Insights from empirical data suggest that the framework effectively mitigates limitations associated with static and heuristic methods, offering a robust foundation for addressing future threats. Variability in detection performance across different scenarios demonstrates the need for continued refinement and exploration of additional feature dimensions. Expanding the framework to incorporate temporal and contextual attributes further enhances its potential for broader applications. The proposed methodology contributes significantly to the domain of ransomware detection, advancing both theoretical understanding and practical implementation capabilities. Results affirm its applicability in safeguarding digital ecosystems from increasingly sophisticated ransomware threats.


---
# It is not only about green: uncovering the factors that determine streetscapes aesthetic in megacities

## 不仅与绿色有关: 揭示决定大城市街景美学的因素

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5109482/latest

Urban streetscapes serve as essential public domains shaping community well-being and identity. Our study searches into the nuanced factors influencing the provision of urban aesthetic service. Employing online surveys, deep learning analyses, and spatial modeling, we explore the intricate interplay between ground level and landscape level features of green and built areas in shaping aesthetic preferences in S&atilde;o Paulo's streets, the largest megacity in the Southern Hemisphere. We found that the perceived beauty of streets is positively affected by heterogeneous arrangement of vegetation and built-up areas and by the three-dimensionality of trees, and not solely by the quantity of greenery. Surprisingly, socioeconomic profiles of respondents exhibit no discernible impact on aesthetic evaluations, suggesting consensus across people with diverse social characteristics. Using convolutional neural networks trained on our survey, we could predict aesthetic scores for over 350,000 street images, yielding for the first time a map of the scenic beauty ecosystem service of an entire city with a resolution of 50 m. This aesthetic map uncovers significant mismatches between supply and demand for aesthetic services, exposing urban inequalities. By revealing these patterns, our framework provides actionable insights for policymakers, offering a pathway to cultivate more socially equitable and aesthetically pleasing urban environments globally.


---
# Traffic-cognitive Slicing for Resource-efficient Offloading with Dual-distillation DRL in Multi-edge Systems

## 在多边缘系统中使用双蒸馏DRL实现资源高效卸载的流量认知切片

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5538116/latest

In edge computing, emerging network slicing and computation offloading can support Edge Service Providers (ESPs) better handling diverse distributions of user requests, to improve Quality-of-Service (QoS) and resource efficiency. However, fluctuating traffic and heterogeneous resources seriously hinder their broader application in multi-edge systems. Existing solutions commonly rely on static configurations or prior knowledge, lacking adaptability to changeable multi-edge environments and thus causing unsatisfying QoS and improper resource provisioning. To address this important challenge, we propose SliceOff, a novel resource-efficient offloading framework with traffic-cognitive network slicing for dynamic multi-edge systems. First, we design a new traffic prediction model based on self-attention to capture traffic fluctuations among different edge regions. Next, an adaptive slicing strategy based on random rounding is devised to adjust the resource configuration according to the traffic and demands of edge regions. Finally, we develop an improved Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) method with a dual-distillation mechanism to address the complex offloading problem, where twin critics&rsquo; networks and dual policy distillation are integrated to improve the agent&rsquo;s exploration and updating efficiency in huge decision spaces. Notably, we carry out rigorous theoretical analysis to prove the effectiveness of the proposed SliceOff. Using the real-world testbed and datasets of user traffic, extensive experiments are conducted to verify the superiority of the proposed SliceOff. The results show that the SliceOff improves resource inefficiency and ESP profits under dynamic multi-edge environments, which outperforms state-of-the-art methods on multiple metrics under various scenarios.


---
# Fully automatic categorical analysis of striatal subregions in dopamine transporter SPECT using a convolutional neural network

## 使用卷积神经网络对多巴胺转运蛋白SPECT中的纹状体亚区进行全自动分类分析

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5373189/latest

Objective To provide fully automatic scanner-independent 5-level categorization of the [123I]FP-CIT uptake in striatal subregions in dopamine transporter SPECT.Methods A total of 3,500 [123I]FP-CIT SPECT scans from two in house (n&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;1,740, n&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;640) and two external (n&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;645, n&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;475) datasets were used for this study. A single convolutional neural network (CNN) was trained for the categorization of the [123I]FP-CIT uptake in unilateral caudate and putamen in both hemispheres according to 5 levels: normal, borderline, moderate reduction, strong reduction, almost missing. Reference standard labels for the network training were created automatically by fitting a Gaussian mixture model to histograms of the specific [123I]FP-CIT binding ratio, separately for caudate and putamen and separately for each dataset. The CNN was trained on a mixed-scanner subsample (n&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;1,957) and tested on one independent identically distributed (IID, n&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;1068) and one out-of-distribution (OOD, n&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;475) test dataset.Results The accuracy of the CNN for the 5-level prediction of the [123I]FP-CIT uptake in caudate/putamen was 80.0/77.8% in the IID test dataset and 78.1/77.3% in the OOD test dataset. All 4 regional 5-level predictions were correct in 53.1/52.6% of the cases in the IID/OOD test dataset. A global binary score automatically derived from the regional 5-scores achieved 97.4/96.2% accuracy for automatic classification of the scans as normal or reduced relative to visual expert read as reference standard.Conclusions Automatic scanner-independent 5-level categorization of the [123I]FP-CIT uptake in striatal subregions by a single CNN model is feasible.


---
# Application of BOPPPS and Flipped Classroom Joint Teaching Model into Clinical Practice Ability of Obstetrics and Gynecology Residents in Standardized Training

## BOPPPS与翻转课堂联合教学模式在妇产科住院医师规范化培训临床实践能力中的应用

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5352449/latest

Background/Aim To explore how a teaching model that integrates bridge-in, objective/outcome, pre-assessment, participatory learning, post-assessment, and summary (the BOPPPS model) and flipped classroom teaching will affect the clinical practice abilities of obstetrics and gynecology residents in standardized training. Methods Seventy standardized training residents from the obstetrics and gynecology training base of the First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical University from June 2023 to June 2024 were selected as research subjects. They were randomly and equally divided into an experimental group (adopting the BOPPPS model combined with the flipped classroom approach) and a control group (adopting traditional teaching methods). The effectiveness of the teaching model was assessed by comparing the performances of the two groups in clinical practice ability simulation assessments, clinical thinking ability, self-directed learning ability, and satisfaction with the teaching methods.
Results The experimental group was scored significantly higher than the control group in patient reception, clinical thinking assessment, and practical skill assessment. The experimental group significantly outperformed the control group in clinical thinking ability scores, self-directed learning ability scores, and overall scores. The experimental group showed significantly higher satisfaction with the BOPPPS and flipped classroom teaching combined model in enhancing self-directed learning ability, learning interest, practical operation levels, teamwork, comprehensive quality, and doctor-patient communication skills, and in cultivating clinical thinking ability.&amp;nbsp;
Conclusions The BOPPPS combined with flipped classroom teaching in standardized training can effectively improve the assessment scores, clinical thinking and self-directed learning abilities of obstetrics and gynecology residents, stimulate their initiative and enthusiasm for learning, meet their teaching needs, and thus enhance teaching quality and assessment passing rates.

