# MAMBO: a lightweight ontology for multiscale materials and applications

## MAMBO: 用于多尺度材料和应用的轻量级本体

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.17877

**Authors:** Fabio Le Piane, Matteo Baldoni, Mauro Gaspari, Francesco Mercuri

arXiv:2412.17877v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Advancements of both computational and experimental tools have recently led to significant progress in the development of new advanced and functional materials, paralleled by a quick growth of the overall amount of data and information on materials. However, an effective unfolding of the potential of advanced and data-intensive methodologies requires systematic and efficient methods for the organization of knowledge in the context of materials research and development. Semantic technologies can support the structured and formal organization of knowledge, providing a platform for the integration and interoperability of data. In this work, we introduce the Materials and Molecules Basic Ontology (MAMBO), which aims at organizing knowledge in the field of computational and experimental workflows on molecular materials and related systems (nanomaterials, supramolecular systems, molecular aggregates, etc.). Linking recent efforts on ontologies for materials sciences in neighboring domains, MAMBO aims at filling gaps in current state-of-the-art knowledge modelling approaches for materials development and design targeting the intersection between the molecular scale and higher scale domains. With a focus on operational processes, lightweight, and modularity, MAMBO enables extensions to broader knowledge domains and integration of methodologies and workflows related to both computational and experimental tools. MAMBO is expected to advance the application of data-driven technologies to molecular materials, including predictive machine learning frameworks for materials design and discovery and automated platforms.


---
# Driving force of atomic ordering in Fe$_{1-x}$Pt$_{x}$, investigated by density functional theory and machine-learning interatomic potentials Monte Carlo simulations

## 密度泛函理论和机器学习原子间势蒙特卡罗模拟研究Fe $_{1-x}$ Pt $_{x }$中的原子有序驱动力

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18198

**Authors:** Tomoyuki Tsuyama, Takeshi Kaneshita, Akira Matsui, Kohei Ochiai, Hiroaki Tanaka, Ryohei Kondo, Takayuki Fukushima, Haruhisa Ohashi, Atsushi Hashimoto, Yoshishige Okuno, Jian-Gang Zhu

arXiv:2412.18198v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We report the mechanisms of atomic ordering in Fe$_{1-x}$Pt$_{x}$ alloys using density functional theory (DFT) and machine-learning interatomic potential Monte Carlo (MLIP-MC) simulations. We clarified that the formation enthalpy of the ordered phase was significantly enhanced by spin polarization compared to that of the disordered phase. Analysis of the density of states indicated that coherence in local potentials in the ordered phase brings energy gain over the disordered phases, when spin is considered. MLIP-MC simulations were performed to investigate the phase transition of atomic ordering at a finite temperature. The model trained using the DFT dataset with spin polarization exhibited quantitatively good agreement with previous experiments and thermodynamic calculations across a wide range of Pt compositions, whereas the model without spin significantly underestimated the transition temperature. Through this study, we clarified that spin polarization is essential for accurately accounting for the ordered phase in Fe-Pt bimetallic alloys, even above the Curie temperature, possibly because of the remaining short-range spin order.


---
# Minimalistic and Scalable Quantum Reservoir Computing Enhanced with Feedback

## 通过反馈增强的简约和可扩展的量子储层计算

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.17817

**Authors:** Chuanzhou Zhu, Peter J. Ehlers, Hendra I. Nurdin, Daniel Soh

arXiv:2412.17817v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Quantum Reservoir Computing (QRC) leverages quantum systems to perform complex computational tasks with exceptional efficiency and reduced energy consumption. We introduce a minimalistic QRC framework utilizing only a few two-level atoms in a single-mode optical cavity, combined with continuous quantum measurements. To achieve high computational expressivity with minimal hardware, we include two critical elements: reservoir feedback and polynomial regression. Reservoir feedback modifies the reservoir's dynamics without altering its hardware, while polynomial regression enhances output resolution by nonlinearly extending expressions. We evaluate QRC's memory retention and nonlinear data processing through two tasks: predicting chaotic time-series data via the Mackey-Glass task and classifying sine-square waveforms. Our results demonstrate significant QRC performance with minimal reservoirs containing as few as five atoms, further enhanced by feedback mechanisms and polynomial regression. This framework fulfills QRC's objectives to minimize hardware size and energy consumption, marking a significant advancement in integrating quantum physics with machine learning technology.


---
# Contemporary implementations of spiking bio-inspired neural networks

## spiking生物启发神经网络的当代实现

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.17926

**Authors:** Andrey E. Schegolev, Marina V. Bastrakova, Michael A. Sergeev, Anastasia A. Maksimovskaya, Nikolay V. Klenov, Igor I. Soloviev

arXiv:2412.17926v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: The extensive development of the field of spiking neural networks has led to many areas of research that have a direct impact on people's lives. As the most bio-similar of all neural networks, spiking neural networks not only allow the solution of recognition and clustering problems (including dynamics), but also contribute to the growing knowledge of the human nervous system. Our analysis has shown that the hardware implementation is of great importance, since the specifics of the physical processes in the network cells affect their ability to simulate the neural activity of living neural tissue, the efficiency of certain stages of information processing, storage and transmission. This survey reviews existing hardware neuromorphic implementations of bio-inspired spiking networks in the "semiconductor", "superconductor" and "optical" domains. Special attention is given to the possibility of effective "hybrids" of different approaches


---
# Dissipation alters modes of information encoding in small quantum reservoirs near criticality

## 耗散改变了接近临界的小型量子储层中信息编码的模式

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18290

**Authors:** Krai Cheamsawat, Thiparat Chotibut

arXiv:2412.18290v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Quantum reservoir computing (QRC) has emerged as a promising paradigm for harnessing near-term quantum devices to tackle temporal machine learning tasks. Yet identifying the mechanisms that underlie enhanced performance remains challenging, particularly in many-body open systems where nonlinear interactions and dissipation intertwine in complex ways. Here, we investigate a minimal model of a driven-dissipative quantum reservoir described by two coupled Kerr-nonlinear oscillators, an experimentally realizable platform that features controllable coupling, intrinsic nonlinearity, and tunable photon loss. Using Partial Information Decomposition (PID), we examine how different dynamical regimes encode input drive signals in terms of redundancy (information shared by each oscillator) and synergy (information accessible only through their joint observation). Our key results show that, near a critical point marking a dynamical bifurcation, the system transitions from predominantly redundant to synergistic encoding. We further demonstrate that synergy amplifies short-term responsiveness, thereby enhancing immediate memory retention, whereas strong dissipation leads to more redundant encoding that supports long-term memory retention. These findings elucidate how the interplay of instability and dissipation shapes information processing in small quantum systems, providing a fine-grained, information-theoretic perspective for analyzing and designing QRC platforms.


---
# Exploring lattice thermal conductivity models via interpretable deep learning to accelerate the discovery of novel materials

## 通过可解释的深度学习探索晶格热导率模型，以加速新材料的发现

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.05948

**Authors:** Yuxuan Zeng, Wei Cao, Yijing Zuo, Tan Peng, Yue Hou, Ziyu Wang, Ling Miao, Jing Shi

arXiv:2412.05948v4 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Lattice thermal conductivity, being integral to thermal transport properties, is indispensable to advancements in areas such as thermoelectric materials and thermal management. Traditional methods, such as Density Functional Theory and Molecular Dynamics, require significant computational resources, posing challenges to the high-throughput prediction of lattice thermal conductivity. Although AI-driven material science has achieved fruitful progress, the trade-off between accuracy and interpretability in machine learning continues to hinder further advancements. This study utilizes interpretable deep learning techniques to construct a rapid prediction framework that enables both qualitative assessments and quantitative predictions, accurately forecasting the thermal transport properties of three novel materials. Furthermore, interpretable deep learning offers analytically grounded physical models while integrating with sensitivity analysis to uncover deeper theoretical insights.


---
# Measurement-based quantum computation from Clifford quantum cellular automata

## 基于Clifford量子元胞自动机的基于测量的量子计算

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.13185

**Authors:** Hendrik Poulsen Nautrup, Hans J. Briegel

arXiv:2312.13185v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Measurement-based quantum computation (MBQC) is a paradigm for quantum computation where computation is driven by local measurements on a suitably entangled resource state. In this work we show that MBQC is related to a model of quantum computation based on Clifford quantum cellular automata (CQCA). Specifically, we show that certain MBQCs can be directly constructed from CQCAs which yields a simple and intuitive circuit model representation of MBQC in terms of quantum computation based on CQCA. We apply this description to construct various MBQC-based Ans\"atze for parameterized quantum circuits, demonstrating that the different Ans\"atze may lead to significantly different performances on different learning tasks. In this way, MBQC yields a family of Hardware-efficient Ans\"atze that may be adapted to specific problem settings and is particularly well suited for architectures with translationally invariant gates such as neutral atoms.


---
# A Phase Transition in Diffusion Models Reveals the Hierarchical Nature of Data

## 扩散模型中的相变揭示了数据的分层性质

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16991

**Authors:** Antonio Sclocchi, Alessandro Favero, Matthieu Wyart

arXiv:2402.16991v3 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Understanding the structure of real data is paramount in advancing modern deep-learning methodologies. Natural data such as images are believed to be composed of features organized in a hierarchical and combinatorial manner, which neural networks capture during learning. Recent advancements show that diffusion models can generate high-quality images, hinting at their ability to capture this underlying compositional structure. We study this phenomenon in a hierarchical generative model of data. We find that the backward diffusion process acting after a time $t$ is governed by a phase transition at some threshold time, where the probability of reconstructing high-level features, like the class of an image, suddenly drops. Instead, the reconstruction of low-level features, such as specific details of an image, evolves smoothly across the whole diffusion process. This result implies that at times beyond the transition, the class has changed, but the generated sample may still be composed of low-level elements of the initial image. We validate these theoretical insights through numerical experiments on class-unconditional ImageNet diffusion models. Our analysis characterizes the relationship between time and scale in diffusion models and puts forward generative models as powerful tools to model combinatorial data properties.


---
# Assimilating Observed Surface Pressure into ML Weather Prediction Models

## 将观测到的表面压力同化到ML天气预报模型中

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18016

**Authors:** Laura C. Slivinski, Jeffrey S. Whitaker, Sergey Frolov, Timothy A. Smith, Niraj Agarwal

arXiv:2412.18016v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: There has been a recent surge in development of accurate machine learning (ML) weather prediction models, but evaluation of these models has mainly been focused on medium-range forecasts, not their performance in cycling data assimilation (DA) systems. Cycling DA provides a statistically optimal estimate of model initial conditions, given observations and previous model forecasts. Here, real surface pressure observations are assimilated into several popular ML models using an ensemble Kalman filter, where accurate ensemble covariance estimation is essential to constrain unobserved state variables from sparse observations. In this cycling DA system, deterministic ML models accumulate small-scale noise until they diverge. Mitigating this noise with a spectral filter can stabilize the system, but with larger errors than traditional models. Perturbation experiments illustrate that these models do not accurately represent short-term error growth, leading to poor estimation of cross-variable covariances.


---
# Moving boundaries: An appreciation of John Hopfield

## 移动边界: 约翰·霍普菲尔德的欣赏

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18030

**Authors:** William Bialek

arXiv:2412.18030v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The 2024 Nobel Prize in Physics was awarded to John Hopfield and Geoffrey Hinton, "for foundational discoveries and inventions that enable machine learning with artificial neural networks." As noted by the Nobel committee, their work moved the boundaries of physics. This is a brief reflection on Hopfield's work, its implications for the emergence of biological physics as a part of physics, the path from his early papers to the modern revolution in artificial intelligence, and prospects for the future.


---
# A Review of 3D Particle Tracking and Flow Diagnostics Using Digital Holography

## 使用数字全息术对3D粒子跟踪和流动诊断的回顾

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18094

**Authors:** Shyam Kumar M, Jiarong Hong

arXiv:2412.18094v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Advanced three-dimensional (3D) tracking methods are essential for studying particle dynamics across a wide range of complex systems, including multiphase flows, environmental and atmospheric sciences, colloidal science, biological and medical research, and industrial manufacturing processes. This review provides a comprehensive summary of 3D particle tracking and flow diagnostics using Digital Holography (DH). We begin by introducing the principles of DH, accompanied by a detailed discussion on numerical reconstruction. The review then explores various hardware setups used in DH, including inline, off-axis, and dual or multiple-view configurations, outlining their advantages and limitations. We also delve into different hologram processing methods, categorized into traditional multi-step, inverse, and machine learning-based approaches, providing in-depth insights into their applications for 3D particle tracking and flow diagnostics across multiple studies. The review concludes with a discussion on future prospects, emphasizing the significant role of machine learning in enabling accurate DH-based particle tracking and flow diagnostic techniques across diverse fields, such as manufacturing, environmental monitoring, and biological sciences.


---
# An AI-directed analytical study on the optical transmission microscopic images of Pseudomonas aeruginosa in planktonic and biofilm states

## 浮游和生物膜状态下铜绿假单胞菌光学透射显微图像的AI指导分析研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18205

**Authors:** Bidisha Sengupta, Mousa Alrubayan, Yibin Wang, Esther Mallet, Angel Torres, Ravyn Solis, Haifeng Wang, Prabhakar Pradhan

arXiv:2412.18205v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Biofilms are resistant microbial cell aggregates that pose risks to health and food industries and produce environmental contamination. Accurate and efficient detection and prevention of biofilms are challenging and demand interdisciplinary approaches. This multidisciplinary research reports the application of a deep learning-based artificial intelligence (AI) model for detecting biofilms produced by Pseudomonas aeruginosa with high accuracy. Aptamer DNA templated silver nanocluster (Ag-NC) was used to prevent biofilm formation, which produced images of the planktonic states of the bacteria. Large-volume bright field images of bacterial biofilms were used to design the AI model. In particular, we used U-Net with ResNet encoder enhancement to segment biofilm images for AI analysis. Different degrees of biofilm structures can be efficiently detected using ResNet18 and ResNet34 backbones. The potential applications of this technique are also discussed.


---
# Lensless speckle reconstructive spectrometer via physics-aware neural network

## 基于物理感知神经网络的无透镜散斑重建光谱仪

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18238

**Authors:** Junrui Liang, Min Jiang, Zhongming Huang, Junhong He, Yanting Guo, Yanzhao Ke, Jun Ye, Jiangming Xu, Jun Li, Jinyong Leng, Pu Zhou

arXiv:2412.18238v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The speckle field yielded by disordered media is extensively employed for spectral measurements. Existing speckle reconstructive spectrometers (RSs) implemented by neural networks primarily rely on supervised learning, which necessitates large-scale spectra-speckle pairs. However, beyond system stability requirements for prolonged data collection, generating diverse spectra with high resolution and finely labeling them is particularly difficult. A lack of variety in datasets hinders the generalization of neural networks to new spectrum types. Here we avoid this limitation by introducing PhyspeNet, an untrained spectrum reconstruction framework combining a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a physical model of a chaotic optical cavity. Without pre-training and prior knowledge about the spectrum under test, PhyspeNet requires only a single captured speckle for various multi-wavelength reconstruction tasks. Experimentally, we demonstrate a lens-free, snapshot RS system by leveraging the one-to-many mapping between spatial and spectrum domains in a random medium. Dual-wavelength peaks separated by 2 pm can be distinguished, and a maximum working bandwidth of 40 nm is achieved with high measurement accuracy. This approach establishes a new paradigm for neural network-based RS systems, entirely eliminating reliance on datasets while ensuring that computational results exhibit a high degree of generalizability and physical explainability.


---
# A CNN-based particle tracking method for large-scale fluid simulations with Lagrangian-Eulerian approaches

## 基于拉格朗日-欧拉方法的基于CNN的大规模流体模拟粒子跟踪方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18379

**Authors:** Xuan Luo, Zichao Jiang, Yi Zhang, Qinghe Yao, Zhuolin Wang, Gengchao Yang, Bohua Huang

arXiv:2412.18379v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: A novel particle tracking method based on a convolutional neural network (CNN) is proposed to improve the efficiency of Lagrangian-Eulerian (L-E) approaches. Relying on the successive neighbor search (SNS) method for particle tracking, the L-E approaches face increasing computational and parallel overhead as simulations grow in scale. This issue arises primarily because the SNS method requires lengthy tracking paths, which incur intensive inter-processor communications. The proposed method, termed the CNN-SNS method, addresses this issue by approximating the spatial mapping between reference frames through the CNN. Initiating the SNS method from CNN predictions shortens the tracking paths without compromising accuracy and consequently achieves superior parallel scalability. Numerical tests demonstrate that the CNN-SNS method exhibits increasing computational advantages over the SNS method in large-scale, high-velocity flow fields. As the resolution and parallelization scale up, the CNN-SNS method achieves reductions of 95.8% in tracking path length and 97.0% in computational time.


---
# Agreement of Image Quality Metrics with Radiological Evaluation in the Presence of Motion Artifacts

## 在存在运动伪影的情况下，图像质量指标与放射学评估的一致性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18389

**Authors:** Elisa Marchetto, Hannah Eichhorn, Daniel Gallichan, Julia A. Schnabel, Melanie Ganz

arXiv:2412.18389v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Purpose: Reliable image quality assessment is crucial for evaluating new motion correction methods for magnetic resonance imaging. In this work, we compare the performance of commonly used reference-based and reference-free image quality metrics on a unique dataset with real motion artifacts. We further analyze the image quality metrics' robustness to typical pre-processing techniques.
  Methods: We compared five reference-based and five reference-free image quality metrics on data acquired with and without intentional motion (2D and 3D sequences). The metrics were recalculated seven times with varying pre-processing steps. The anonymized images were rated by radiologists and radiographers on a 1-5 Likert scale. Spearman correlation coefficients were computed to assess the relationship between image quality metrics and observer scores.
  Results: All reference-based image quality metrics showed strong correlation with observer assessments, with minor performance variations across sequences. Among reference-free metrics, Average Edge Strength offers the most promising results, as it consistently displayed stronger correlations across all sequences compared to the other reference-free metrics. Overall, the strongest correlation was achieved with percentile normalization and restricting the metric values to the skull-stripped brain region. In contrast, correlations were weaker when not applying any brain mask and using min-max or no normalization.
  Conclusion: Reference-based metrics reliably correlate with radiological evaluation across different sequences and datasets. Pre-processing steps, particularly normalization and brain masking, significantly influence the correlation values. Future research should focus on refining pre-processing techniques and exploring machine learning approaches for automated image quality evaluation.


---
# All-electric mimicking synaptic plasticity based on the noncollinear antiferromagnetic device

## 基于非共线反铁磁器件的全电模拟突触可塑性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18418

**Authors:** Cuimei Cao, Wei Duan, Xiaoyu Feng, Yan Xu, Yihan Wang, Zhenzhong Yang, Qingfeng Zhan, Long You

arXiv:2412.18418v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Neuromorphic computing, which seeks to replicate the brain's ability to process information, has garnered significant attention due to its potential to achieve brain-like computing efficiency and human cognitive intelligence. Spin-orbit torque (SOT) devices can be used to simulate artificial synapses with non-volatile, high-speed processing and endurance characteristics. Nevertheless, achieving energy-efficient all-electric synaptic plasticity emulation using SOT devices remains a challenge. We chose the noncollinear antiferromagnetic Mn3Pt as spin source to fabricate the Mn3Pt-based SOT device, leveraging its unconventional spin current resulting from magnetic space breaking. By adjusting the amplitude, duration, and number of pulsed currents, the Mn3Pt-based SOT device achieves nonvolatile multi-state modulated by all-electric SOT switching, enabling emulate synaptic behaviors like excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP), inhibitory postsynaptic potential (IPSP), long-term depression (LTD) and the long-term potentiation (LTP) process. In addition, we show the successful training of an artificial neural network based on such SOT device in recognizing handwritten digits with a high recognition accuracy of 94.95 %, which is only slightly lower than that from simulations (98.04 %). These findings suggest that the Mn3Pt-based SOT device is a promising candidate for the implementation of memristor-based brain-inspired computing systems.


---
# Field-free current-induced magnetization switching of a room temperature van der Waals magnet for neuromorphic computing

## 用于神经形态计算的室温范德华磁体的无场电流感应磁化切换

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18429

**Authors:** Chenxi Zhou, Zhe Guo, Qifeng Li, Gaojie Zhang, Hao Wu, Jinsen Chen, Rongxin Li, Shuai Zhang, Cuimei Cao, Rui Xiong, Haixin Chang, Long You

arXiv:2412.18429v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Spin orbit torque (SOT) has become a promising approach to efficiently manipulate the magnetization switching in spintronic devices. As a main factor to impact the device performance, the high quality interface is essentially desired, which can be readily acquired by using the two-dimensional (2D) van der Waals (vdW) materials. Recently, a 2D ferromagnetic material Fe3GaTe2 has been discovered to possess the above-room-temperature Curie temperature and strong perpendicular magnetic anisotropy (PMA), providing an excellent candidate to build spintronic devices. On the other hand, an external magnetic field is necessary for the SOT-driven deterministic switching of perpendicular magnetization, which has become a block for the real applications. Here, we realize the field-free SOT switching of Fe3GaTe2 at room temperature based on the Fe3GaTe2/MnPt heterostructure. In addition, inspired by the superiority of 2D materials in 3D heterogeneous integration, we explore the potential of our device in the computing in memory (CIM). With the application of the current pulses, the gradual switching of our device at zero field imitates the function of artificial synapse in the convolutional neural network (CNN), achieving a high accuracy (~92.8%) pattern recognition. Our work proposes a feasible solution for field-free SOT switching in 2D vdW spintronic devices, which paves the way for applications in magnetic memory and neuromorphic computing.


---
# Post-pandemic social contacts in Italy: implications for social distancing measures on in-person school and work attendance

## 意大利大流行后的社会接触: 社会距离措施对面对面学校和工作出勤率的影响

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18549

**Authors:** Lorenzo Lucchini, Valentina Marziano, Filippo Trentini, Chiara Chiavenna, Elena D'Agnese, Vittoria Offeddu, Mattia Manica, Piero Poletti, Duilio Balsamo, Giorgio Guzzetta, Marco Aielli, Alessia Melegaro, Stefano Merler

arXiv:2412.18549v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The collection of updated data on social contact patterns following the COVID-19 pandemic disruptions is crucial for future epidemiological assessments and evaluating non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) based on physical distancing. We conducted two waves of an online survey in March 2022 and March 2023 in Italy, gathering data from a representative population sample on direct (verbal/physical interactions) and indirect (prolonged co-location in indoor spaces) contacts. Using a generalized linear mixed model, we examined determinants of individuals' total social contacts and evaluated the potential impact of work-from-home and distance learning on the transmissibility of respiratory pathogens. In-person attendance at work or school emerged as a primary driver of social contacts. Adults attending in person reported a mean of 1.69 (95% CI: 1.56-1.84) times the contacts of those staying home; among children and adolescents, this ratio increased to 2.38 (95% CI: 1.98-2.87). We estimated that suspending all non-essential work alone would marginally reduce transmissibility. However, combining distance learning for all education levels with work-from-home policies could decrease transmissibility by up to 23.7% (95% CI: 18.2%-29.0%). Extending these measures to early childcare services would yield only minimal additional benefits. These results provide useful data for modelling the transmission of respiratory pathogens in Italy after the end of the COVID-19 emergency. They also provide insights into the potential epidemiological effectiveness of social distancing interventions targeting work and school attendance, supporting considerations on the balance between the expected benefits and their heavy societal costs.


---
# MAMBO: a lightweight ontology for multiscale materials and applications

## MAMBO: 用于多尺度材料和应用的轻量级本体

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.17877

**Authors:** Fabio Le Piane, Matteo Baldoni, Mauro Gaspari, Francesco Mercuri

arXiv:2412.17877v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Advancements of both computational and experimental tools have recently led to significant progress in the development of new advanced and functional materials, paralleled by a quick growth of the overall amount of data and information on materials. However, an effective unfolding of the potential of advanced and data-intensive methodologies requires systematic and efficient methods for the organization of knowledge in the context of materials research and development. Semantic technologies can support the structured and formal organization of knowledge, providing a platform for the integration and interoperability of data. In this work, we introduce the Materials and Molecules Basic Ontology (MAMBO), which aims at organizing knowledge in the field of computational and experimental workflows on molecular materials and related systems (nanomaterials, supramolecular systems, molecular aggregates, etc.). Linking recent efforts on ontologies for materials sciences in neighboring domains, MAMBO aims at filling gaps in current state-of-the-art knowledge modelling approaches for materials development and design targeting the intersection between the molecular scale and higher scale domains. With a focus on operational processes, lightweight, and modularity, MAMBO enables extensions to broader knowledge domains and integration of methodologies and workflows related to both computational and experimental tools. MAMBO is expected to advance the application of data-driven technologies to molecular materials, including predictive machine learning frameworks for materials design and discovery and automated platforms.


---
# Trading Devil RL: Backdoor attack via Stock market, Bayesian Optimization and Reinforcement Learning

## 交易魔鬼RL: 通过股票市场，贝叶斯优化和强化学习进行后门攻击

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.17908

**Authors:** Orson Mengara

arXiv:2412.17908v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: With the rapid development of generative artificial intelligence, particularly large language models, a number of sub-fields of deep learning have made significant progress and are now very useful in everyday applications. For example, well-known financial institutions simulate a wide range of scenarios for various models created by their research teams using reinforcement learning, both before production and after regular operations. In this work, we propose a backdoor attack that focuses solely on data poisoning. This particular backdoor attack is classified as an attack without prior consideration or trigger, and we name it FinanceLLMsBackRL. Our aim is to examine the potential effects of large language models that use reinforcement learning systems for text production or speech recognition, finance, physics, or the ecosystem of contemporary artificial intelligence models.


---
# An Attention-based Framework with Multistation Information for Earthquake Early Warnings

## 具有多站信息的基于注意力的地震预警框架

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18099

**Authors:** Yu-Ming Huang, Kuan-Yu Chen, Wen-Wei Lin, Da-Yi Chen

arXiv:2412.18099v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Earthquake early warning systems play crucial roles in reducing the risk of seismic disasters. Previously, the dominant modeling system was the single-station models. Such models digest signal data received at a given station and predict earth-quake parameters, such as the p-phase arrival time, intensity, and magnitude at that location. Various methods have demonstrated adequate performance. However, most of these methods present the challenges of the difficulty of speeding up the alarm time, providing early warning for distant areas, and considering global information to enhance performance. Recently, deep learning has significantly impacted many fields, including seismology. Thus, this paper proposes a deep learning-based framework, called SENSE, for the intensity prediction task of earthquake early warning systems. To explicitly consider global information from a regional or national perspective, the input to SENSE comprises statistics from a set of stations in a given region or country. The SENSE model is designed to learn the relationships among the set of input stations and the locality-specific characteristics of each station. Thus, SENSE is not only expected to provide more reliable forecasts by considering multistation data but also has the ability to provide early warnings to distant areas that have not yet received signals. This study conducted extensive experiments on datasets from Taiwan and Japan. The results revealed that SENSE can deliver competitive or even better performances compared with other state-of-the-art methods.


---
# Free the Design Space of Equivariant Graph Neural Networks: High-Rank Irreducible Cartesian Tensor Decomposition and Bases of Equivariant Spaces

## 释放等变图神经网络的设计空间: 高阶不可约笛卡尔张量分解和等变空间的基础

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18263

**Authors:** Shihao Shao, Yikang Li, Zhouchen Lin, Qinghua Cui

arXiv:2412.18263v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Irreducible Cartesian tensors (ICTs) play a crucial role in the design of equivariant graph neural networks, as well as in theoretical chemistry and chemical physics. Meanwhile, the design space of available linear operations on tensors that preserve symmetry presents a significant challenge. The ICT decomposition and a basis of this equivariant space are difficult to obtain for high-order tensors. After decades of research, we recently achieve an explicit ICT decomposition for $n=5$ \citep{bonvicini2024irreducible} with factorial time/space complexity. This work, for the first time, obtains decomposition matrices for ICTs up to rank $n=9$ with reduced and affordable complexity, by constructing what we call path matrices. The path matrices are obtained via performing chain-like contraction with Clebsch-Gordan matrices following the parentage scheme. We prove and leverage that the concatenation of path matrices is an orthonormal change-of-basis matrix between the Cartesian tensor product space and the spherical direct sum spaces. Furthermore, we identify a complete orthogonal basis for the equivariant space, rather than a spanning set \citep{pearce2023brauer}, through this path matrices technique. We further extend our result to the arbitrary tensor product and direct sum spaces, enabling free design between different spaces while keeping symmetry. The Python code is available in the appendix where the $n=6,\dots,9$ ICT decomposition matrices are obtained in <0.1s, 0.5s, 1s, 3s, 11s, and 4m32s, respectively.


---
# Discovery of Quasi-Integrable Equations from traveling-wave data using the Physics-Informed Neural Networks

## 使用具有物理信息的神经网络从行波数据中发现准可积方程

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.19014

**Authors:** A. Nakamula, K. Obuse, N. Sawado, K. Shimasaki, Y. Shimazaki, Y. Suzuki, K. Toda

arXiv:2410.19014v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Physics-Informed Neural Networks (PINNs) are used to study vortex solutions in the 2+1 dimensional nonlinear partial differential equations. These solutions include the regularized long-wave (RLW) equation and the Zakharov-Kuznetsov (ZK) equation, which are toy models of the geostrophic shallow water model in the planetary atmosphere. PINNs successfully solve these equations in the forward process and the solutions are obtained using the mesh-free approach and automatic differentiation while accounting for conservation laws. In the inverse process, the proper equations can be successfully derived from a given training data. Since these equations have a lot in common, there are situations when substantial misidentification arises during the inverse analysis. We consider PINNs with conservation laws (referred to as cPINNs), deformations of the initial profiles, and a friction approach that provides excellent discrimination of the equations to improve the identification's resolution.


---
# Physics-Based Dynamic Models Hybridisation Using Physics-Informed Neural Networks

## 使用物理信息神经网络的基于物理的动态模型混合

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.07514

**Authors:** Branislava Lalic, Dinh Viet Cuong, Mina Petric, Vladimir Pavlovic, Ana Firanj Sremac, Mark Roantree

arXiv:2412.07514v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Physics-based dynamic models (PBDMs) are simplified representations of complex dynamical systems. PBDMs take specific processes within a complex system and assign a fragment of variables and an accompanying set of parameters to depict the processes. As this often leads to suboptimal parameterisation of the system, a key challenge requires refining the empirical parameters and variables to reduce uncertainties while maintaining the model s explainability and enhancing its predictive accuracy. We demonstrate that a hybrid mosquito population dynamics model, which integrates a PBDM with Physics-Informed Neural Networks (PINN), retains the explainability of the PBDM by incorporating the PINN-learned model parameters in place of its empirical counterparts. Specifically, we address the limitations of traditional PBDMs by modelling the parameters of larva and pupa development rates using a PINN that encodes complex, learned interactions of air temperature, precipitation and humidity. Our results demonstrate improved mosquito population simulations including the difficult-to-predict mosquito population peaks. This opens the possibility of hybridisation concept application on other complex systems based on PBDMs such as cancer growth to address the challenges posed by scarce and noisy data, and to numerical weather prediction and climate modelling to overcome the gap between physics-based and data-driven weather prediction models.


---
# Flow Matching for Optimal Reaction Coordinates of Biomolecular System

## 生物分子体系最佳反应坐标的流动匹配

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.17139

**Authors:** Mingyuan Zhang, Zhicheng Zhang, Hao Wu, Yong Wang

arXiv:2408.17139v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: We present flow matching for reaction coordinates (FMRC), a novel deep learning algorithm designed to identify optimal reaction coordinates (RC) in biomolecular reversible dynamics. FMRC is based on the mathematical principles of lumpability and decomposability, which we reformulate into a conditional probability framework for efficient data-driven optimization using deep generative models. While FMRC does not explicitly learn the well-established transfer operator or its eigenfunctions, it can effectively encode the dynamics of leading eigenfunctions of the system transfer operator into its low-dimensional RC space. We further quantitatively compare its performance with several state-of-the-art algorithms by evaluating the quality of Markov state models (MSM) constructed in their respective RC spaces, demonstrating the superiority of FMRC in three increasingly complex biomolecular systems. In addition, we successfully demonstrated the efficacy of FMRC for bias deposition in the enhanced sampling of a simple model system. Finally, we discuss its potential applications in downstream applications such as enhanced sampling methods and MSM construction.


---
# Exploring lattice thermal conductivity models via interpretable deep learning to accelerate the discovery of novel materials

## 通过可解释的深度学习探索晶格热导率模型，以加速新材料的发现

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.05948

**Authors:** Yuxuan Zeng, Wei Cao, Yijing Zuo, Tan Peng, Yue Hou, Ziyu Wang, Ling Miao, Jing Shi

arXiv:2412.05948v4 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Lattice thermal conductivity, being integral to thermal transport properties, is indispensable to advancements in areas such as thermoelectric materials and thermal management. Traditional methods, such as Density Functional Theory and Molecular Dynamics, require significant computational resources, posing challenges to the high-throughput prediction of lattice thermal conductivity. Although AI-driven material science has achieved fruitful progress, the trade-off between accuracy and interpretability in machine learning continues to hinder further advancements. This study utilizes interpretable deep learning techniques to construct a rapid prediction framework that enables both qualitative assessments and quantitative predictions, accurately forecasting the thermal transport properties of three novel materials. Furthermore, interpretable deep learning offers analytically grounded physical models while integrating with sensitivity analysis to uncover deeper theoretical insights.


---
# A Pioneering Neural Network Method for Efficient and Robust Fuel Sloshing Simulation in Aircraft

## 一种用于飞机燃油晃动仿真的开创性神经网络方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10748

**Authors:** Yu Chen, Shuai Zheng, Nianyi Wang, Menglong Jin, Yan Chang

arXiv:2412.10748v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Simulating fuel sloshing within aircraft tanks during flight is crucial for aircraft safety research. Traditional methods based on Navier-Stokes equations are computationally expensive. In this paper, we treat fluid motion as point cloud transformation and propose the first neural network method specifically designed for simulating fuel sloshing in aircraft. This model is also the deep learning model that is the first to be capable of stably modeling fluid particle dynamics in such complex scenarios. Our triangle feature fusion design achieves an optimal balance among fluid dynamics modeling, momentum conservation constraints, and global stability control. Additionally, we constructed the Fueltank dataset, the first dataset for aircraft fuel surface sloshing. It comprises 320,000 frames across four typical tank types and covers a wide range of flight maneuvers, including multi-directional rotations. We conducted comprehensive experiments on both our dataset and the take-off scenario of the aircraft. Compared to existing neural network-based fluid simulation algorithms, we significantly enhanced accuracy while maintaining high computational speed. Compared to traditional SPH methods, our speed improved approximately 10 times. Furthermore, compared to traditional fluid simulation software such as Flow3D, our computation speed increased by more than 300 times.


---
# Unveiling the Spatial Distribution and Temporal Trends of Total Phosphorus in the Yangtze River: Towards a Predictive Time-Series Modeling for Environmental Management

## 揭示长江总磷的空间分布和时间趋势: 面向环境管理的预测时间序列模型

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5687983/latest

The accurate prediction of total phosphorus in water quality is crucial for monitoring ecosystem stability and eutrophication status. However, the distribution of natural environmental data such as water quality total phosphorus (TP) often undergoes complex changes over time. Stable and reliable predictive outcomes not only necessitate a degree of stability and periodicity within the natural data, but also require that TP prediction models exhibit strong adaptability to the random fluctuations and distribution drifts of environmental data. Therefore, adapting predictive models to accommodate distribution drifts in natural environmental data presents a challenge. This study provides a detailed description of the spatiotemporal variations of TP in the Yangtze River from 2019 to 2023. Utilizing data cleaning and data mining techniques, time series data were analyzed to generate a predictive dataset, with a particular emphasis on investigating the stability and periodicity of TP fluctuations. By comparing various time series forecasting models, the MTS-Mixers was ultimately selected as the experimental baseline model, and different modes were employed for time series prediction. The results demonstrate that the model maintains relatively high prediction accuracy within 20 time steps. The research findings not only offer a comprehensive description and reliable prediction of TP variations in the Yangtze River, but also provide effective methods and tools for water quality monitoring and management. They serve as a scientific basis for environmental protection and water quality improvement in the Yangtze River Basin, facilitating the formulation and implementation of relevant policies and advancing the sustainable development of the Yangtze River water environment. Furthermore, the study also confirms the applicability of machine learning in hydrological forecasting, which can be utilized for addressing environmental changes. Future research directions include ensuring the stability of critical monitoring data and exploring time-domain sub-band reconstruction methods to better understand the frequency characteristics of time series data, revealing hidden information and features.


---
# The Impact of Teacher Intervention on Early Writing Development in KG1 Students

## 教师干预对KG1学生早期写作发展的影响

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5664620/latest

This study examines the effectiveness of intentional teacher interventions, including parental involvement, deliberate errors, multisensory learning, and scaffolding, in enhancing the early writing development of Kindergarten students (ages 3.5&ndash;4). Using a quasi-experimental design, the study involved 26 students divided into intervention and control groups. The intervention group received structured support through techniques such as deliberate modeling of letter formation, error correction practices, targeted fine motor activities, and kinesthetic learning approaches.
Findings revealed significant improvements in fine motor skills, letter formation, and writing quality among the intervention group compared to the control group. Students exposed to these techniques demonstrated enhanced pincer grip, consistent letter proportions, and better overall writing organization.
The integration of multisensory learning and parental involvement further accelerated skill acquisition and motivation, with students confidently applying learned skills during independent activities and free play.
These results underscore the importance of providing young learners with targeted, interactive, and scaffolded interventions to foster confidence, competence, and foundational writing skills. The study highlights the need for further research to explore the long-term impacts of such strategies across diverse educational settings.


---
# Task-related Controllability of Functional Connectome During a Working Memory Task in Schizophrenia, Bipolar Disorder, and Major Depressive Disorder

## 在精神分裂症，双相情感障碍和重度抑郁症的工作记忆任务期间，功能连接组的任务相关可控性

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5412595/latest

Working memory (WM) deficit is a prominent and common cognitive impairment in major psychiatric disorders (MPDs). Altered control of brain states transitions may underlie the neural basis of WM deficit. Brain controllability derived from Network Control Theory provides a mathematical framework to study how external signals may affect neural network dynamics and influence the transition to desired states. We investigate if shared and illness-specific alterations in controllability underlie WM deficits in MPDs. We examined fMRI data during a n-back WM task from 105 patients with schizophrenia (SZ), 67 with bipolar disorder (BD), 51 with major depressive disorder (MDD), and 80 healthy controls (HCs). A region&amp;rsquo;s capacity to steer transitions to connectomic states with less input (average controllability) and difficult-to-reach states with high input (modal controllability) were compared across groups. The effect of altered controllability on clinical and cognitive characteristics, and their likely genetic and neurotransmitter basis were investigated. Compared to HCs, all MPDs had lower modal controllability of frontoparietal network. SZ and MDD shared modal controllability in default mode network and salience network nodes compared to BD and HCs. Only SZ had lower modal controllability of sensorimotor, auditory, and visual network nodes than HCs, indicating the need for higher sensory inputs to facilitate a state transition in SZ. Expression of genes that determine synaptic biology and chemoarchitecture involving glutamate/GABA and monoamine (dopamine and 5HT) receptor systems were more likely in the affected brain regions. A graded, transdiagnostic reduction in the influence of the triple network system and sensory networks in implementing state transitions underlies working memory deficits in MPDs. This deficit, especially pronounced in SZ, has its likely basis in synaptic biology and in glutamate/GABA and monoamine (dopamine and 5HT) systems.


---
# Yield and nutrient composition of fertigated staked tomato in southern Brazil

## 巴西南部肥育的番茄的产量和营养成分

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5504313/latest

Fertigated staked tomato (Solanum lycopersicon) is a highly productive crop grown in Santa Catarina State (SCS), Brazil. The timing and dosage of different inputs have been tested but their integration into a crop model is still pending. Our objective was to decrypt the tomato database using machine learning (ML) methods and to generate nutrient standards at high yield level. Managerial, edaphic, physiological and climatic features were documented at experimental sites from 2006 to 2020 in Ca&ccedil;ador, Southern Brazil. Features were related to yield using the Random Forest and Gradient Boosting ML models. The models were accurate (R2 = 0.852-0,855). Tissue nutrients and fertilization were the most important features, followed by climate and soil features. Soil management and previous crops showed little importance. The tissue concentration values were centered-log-ratio (clr) transformed to compute nutrient standards at high yield level. While N is known to impact the incidence of pests, tissue N was loosely related to its clr value where tissue N was adjusted to the geometric mean of all nutrients including those that impact pest incidence. To assess the capacity of ML models and nutrient standards to generalize to unseen cases, universality tests should be conducted in farmers&rsquo; fields before general use.


---
# MRI quantiﬁed perivascular space metrics as imaging biomarkers for assessing the severity of cognitive impairment and sleep disturbance in young adults with long-time mobile phone use through machine learning approaches

## MRI量化的血管周围空间指标作为成像生物标志物，用于通过机器学习方法评估长期使用手机的年轻人的认知障碍和睡眠障碍的严重程度

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5384782/latest

Emerging evidence has linked long-time mobile phone use (LTMPU) with cognitive impairment and sleep issues, with MRI-detected enlarged perivascular spaces (EPVSs) serving as markers for these conditions. Our study seeks to develop predictive model using MRI-based PVS measurements and machine learning to assess cognitive impairment, subjective sleep quality, and excessive daytime sleepiness in young adults with LTMPU. Eighty-two participants were included, deep learning algorithms were used to segment EPVS lesions and extract quantitative metrics. Training and testing datasets were randomly assigned to perform radiomics analysis, where EPVS metrics combined with sex and age were used to select the most valuable features for model construction. Finally, a Gaussian process model was constructed based on six features for assessing cognitive impairment, yielding an AUC of 0.818 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.610-1) in the testing dataset. For sleep quality and sleepiness, two decision tree (DT) models using six features achieved an AUC value of 0.826 (95% CI 0.616-1) and 0.875 (95% CI 0.718-1) in the testing dataset respectively. Our study leveraged MRI-based PVS metrics and machine learning to assess the severity of cognitive impairment and sleep problems in young adults with LTMPU, and sheds light on a potential link between PVS and sleepiness.

