# Entanglement-Enabled Advantage for Learning a Bosonic Random Displacement Channel

## 学习玻色子随机位移通道的纠缠优势

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevLett.133.230604

Author(s): Changhun Oh, Senrui Chen, Yat Wong, Sisi Zhou, Hsin-Yuan Huang, Jens A. H. Nielsen, Zheng-Hao Liu, Jonas S. Neergaard-Nielsen, Ulrik L. Andersen, Liang Jiang, and John Preskill<br /><p>We show that quantum entanglement can provide an exponential advantage in learning properties of a bosonic continuous-variable (CV) system. The task we consider is estimating a probabilistic mixture of displacement operators acting on $n$ bosonic modes, called a random displacement channel. We prove…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. Lett. 133, 230604] Published Fri Dec 06, 2024


---
# Discrete Synaptic Events Induce Global Oscillations in Balanced Neural Networks

## 离散突触事件在平衡神经网络中引起全局振荡

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevLett.133.238401

Author(s): Denis S. Goldobin, Matteo di Volo, and Alessandro Torcini<br /><p>Despite the fact that neural dynamics is triggered by discrete synaptic events, the neural response is usually obtained within the diffusion approximation representing the synaptic inputs as Gaussian noise. We derive a mean-field formalism encompassing synaptic shot noise for sparse balanced neural …</p><br />[Phys. Rev. Lett. 133, 238401] Published Fri Dec 06, 2024


---
# Neuronal circuit mechanisms of competitive interaction between action-based and coincidence learning

## 基于动作的学习和巧合学习之间竞争性相互作用的神经元回路机制

Link: https://www.science.org/doi/abs/10.1126/sciadv.adq3016?af=R

Science Advances, Volume 10, Issue 49, December 2024. <br />


---
# Evaluating generalizability of artificial intelligence models for molecular datasets

## 评估分子数据集的人工智能模型的可推广性

Link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s42256-024-00931-6

<p>Nature Machine Intelligence, Published online: 06 December 2024; <a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/s42256-024-00931-6">doi:10.1038/s42256-024-00931-6</a></p>Ektefaie and colleagues introduce the spectral framework for models evaluation (SPECTRA) to measure the generalizability of machine learning models for molecular sequences.


---
# Learning spatiotemporal dynamics with a pretrained generative model

## 使用预训练的生成模型学习时空动力学

Link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s42256-024-00938-z

<p>Nature Machine Intelligence, Published online: 06 December 2024; <a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/s42256-024-00938-z">doi:10.1038/s42256-024-00938-z</a></p>Reconstructing and predicting spatiotemporal dynamics from sparse sensor data is challenging, especially with limited sensors. Li et al. address this by using self-supervised pretraining of a generative model, improving accuracy and generalization.


---
# Quantitative biomimetics of high-performance materials

## 高性能材料的定量仿生

Link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41578-024-00753-3

<p>Nature Reviews Materials, Published online: 06 December 2024; <a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/s41578-024-00753-3">doi:10.1038/s41578-024-00753-3</a></p>The need for materials with hard-to-combine properties has spurred advancements in bioinspired nanostructures. They are difficult to replicate because they combine order and disorder. Their properties are also difficult to predict because of abundance of interfaces. This Perspective suggests using a quantitative framework based on interface chemistry and Taylor series to accelerate materials design, integrating theory, simulations and machine learning for optimizing materials with multiscale architectures.


---
# Inverse prediction of Al alloy post-processing conditions using classification with guided oversampling

## 使用引导过采样的分类对铝合金后处理条件进行逆预测

Link: http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2632-2153/ad95dc

Machine learning is proving to be an ideal tool for materials design, capable of predicting forward structure-property relationships, and inverse property-structure relationships. However, it has yet to be used extensively for materials engineering challenges, predicting post-processing/structure relationships, and has yet to be used for to predict structure/post-processing relationships for inverse engineering. This is often due to the lack of sufficient metadata, and the overall scarcity and imbalance of processing data in many domains. This topic is explored in the current study using binary and multi-class classification to predict the appropriate post-synthesis processing conditions for aluminium alloys, based entirely on the alloying composition. The data imbalance was addressed using a new guided oversampling strategy that improves model performance by simultaneously balancing the classes and avoiding noise that contributes to over-fitting. This is achieved by through the deliberate but strategic introduction of not-a-numbers (NaNs) and the use of algorithms that naturally avoid them during learning. The outcome is the successful training of highly accurate binary classifiers, with significant reductions in false negatives and/or false positives with respect to the classifiers trained on the original data alone. Superior results were obtained for models predicting whether alloys should be solutionised or aged, post-synthesis, by guiding the re-balancing of the classes based on features (metals) that are highly ranked by the classifier, and then doubling the size of the data set via interpolation. Overall, this strategy has the greatest impact on tasks with a Shannon Diversity Index greater than 1 or less than 0.5, but can be applied to any prediction of post-processing conditions as part of an inverse engineering workflow.


---
# Transferability of atom-based neural networks

## 基于原子的神经网络的可传递性

Link: http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2632-2153/ad9709

Machine-learning models in chemistry—when based on descriptors of atoms embedded within molecules—face essential challenges in transferring the quality of predictions of local electronic structures and their associated properties across chemical compound space. In the present work, we make use of adversarial validation to elucidate certain intrinsic complications related to machine inferences of unseen chemistry. On this basis, we employ invariant and equivariant neural networks—both trained either exclusively on total molecular energies or a combination of these and data from atomic partitioning schemes—to evaluate how such models scale performance-wise between datasets of fundamentally different functionality and composition. We find the inference of local electronic properties to improve significantly when training models on augmented data that appropriately expose local functional features. However, molecular datasets for training purposes must themselves be sufficiently comprehensive and rich in composition to warrant any generalizations to larger systems, and even then, transferability can still only genuinely manifest if the body of atomic energies available for training purposes exposes the uniqueness of different functional moieties within molecules. We demonstrate this point by comparing machine models trained on atomic partitioning schemes based on the spatial locality of either native atomic or molecular orbitals.


---
# Thermodynamic Fidelity of Generative Models for Ising System

## Ising系统生成模型的热力学保真度

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.03764

arXiv:2412.03764v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Machine learning has become a central technique for modeling in science and engineering, either complementing or as surrogates to physics-based models. Significant efforts have recently been devoted to models capable of predicting field quantities but the limitations of current state-of-the-art models in describing complex physics are not well understood. We characterize the ability of generative diffusion models and generative adversarial networks (GAN) to describe the Ising model. We find diffusion models trained using equilibrium configurations obtained using Metropolis Monte Carlo for a range of temperatures around the critical temperature can capture average thermodynamic variables across the phase transformation and extrapolate to higher and lower temperatures. The model also captures the overall trends of physical properties associated with fluctuations (specific heat and susceptibility) except at the non-ergodic low temperatures and non-trivial scale-free correlations at the critical temperature, albeit with some difference in the critical exponent compared to Monte Carlo simulations. GANs perform more poorly on thermodynamic properties and are susceptible to mode-collapse without careful training. This investigation highlights the potential and limitations of generative models in capturing the complex phenomena associated with certain physical systems.


---
# Copper delocalization leads to ultralow thermal conductivity in chalcohalide CuBiSeCl2

## 铜离域导致硫卤立方ecl2中的超低热导率

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.03976

arXiv:2412.03976v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Mixed anion halide-chalcogenide materials have attracted considerable attention due to their exceptional optoelectronic properties, making them promising candidates for various applications. Among these, CuBiSeCl_2 has recently been experimentally identified with remarkably low lattice thermal conductivity (k_L). In this study, we employ Wigner transport theory combined with neuroevolution machine learning potential (NEP)-assisted self-consistent phonon calculations to unravel the microscopic origins of this low k_L. Our findings reveal that the delocalization and weak bonding of copper atoms are key contributors to the strong phonon anharmonicity and wavelike tunneling (random walk diffusons). These insights deepen our understanding of the relationship between bonding characteristics, anharmonicity, delocalization, and vibrational dynamics, paving the way for the design and optimization of CuBiSeCl_2 and analogous materials for advanced phonon engineering applications.


---
# PDMD: Potential-free Data-driven Molecular Dynamics for Variable-sized Water Clusters

## PDMD: 可变尺寸水团簇的无电位数据驱动分子动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04442

arXiv:2412.04442v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Conventional molecular dynamics (MD) simulation approaches, such as ab initio MD and empirical force field MD, face significant trade-offs between physical accuracy and computational efficiency. This work presents a novel Potential-free Data-driven Molecular Dynamics (PDMD) framework for predicting system energy and atomic forces of variable-sized water clusters. Specifically, PDMD employs the smooth overlap of atomic positions descriptor to generate high-dimensional, equivariant features before leveraging ChemGNN, a graph neural network model that adaptively learns the atomic chemical environments without requiring a priori knowledge. Through an iterative self-consistent training approach, the converged PDMD achieves a mean absolute error of 7.1 meV/atom for energy and 59.8 meV/angstrom for forces, outperforming the state-of-the-art DeepMD by ~80% in energy accuracy and ~200% in force prediction. As a result, PDMD can reproduce the ab initio MD properties of water clusters at a tiny fraction of its computational cost. These results demonstrate that the proposed PDMD offers multiple-phase predictive power, enabling ultra-fast, general-purpose MD simulations while retaining ab initio accuracy.


---
# Phase transitions of correlated systems from graph neural networks with quantum embedding techniques

## 来自具有量子嵌入技术的图神经网络的相关系统的相变

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.08782

arXiv:2404.08782v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Correlated systems represent a class of materials that are difficult to describe through traditional electronic structure methods. The computational demand to simulate the structural dynamics of such systems, with correlation effects considered, is substantial. Here, we investigate the structural dynamics of $f$- and $d$-electron correlated systems by integrating quantum embedding techniques with interatomic potentials derived from graph neural networks. For Cerium, a prototypical correlated $f$-electron system, we use Density Functional Theory with the Gutzwiller approximation to generate training data due to efficiency with which correlations effects are included for large multi-orbital systems. For Nickel Oxide, a prototypical correlated $d$-electron system, advancements in computational capabilities now permit the use of full Dynamical Mean Field Theory to obtain energies and forces. We train neural networks on this data to create a model of the potential energy surface, enabling rapid and effective exploration of structural dynamics. Utilizing these potentials, we delineate transition pathways between the $\alpha$, $\alpha'$, and $\alpha''$ phases of Cerium and predict the melting curve of Nickel Oxide. Our results demonstrate the potential of machine learning potentials to accelerate the study of strongly correlated systems, offering a scalable approach to explore and understand the complex physics governing these materials.


---
# How Graph Neural Network Interatomic Potentials Extrapolate: Role of the Message-Passing Algorithm

## 图神经网络原子间势如何外推: 消息传递算法的作用

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00290

arXiv:2405.00290v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Graph neural network interatomic potentials (GNN-IPs) are gaining significant attention due to their capability of learning from large datasets. Specifically, universal interatomic potentials based on GNN, usually trained with crystalline geometries, often exhibit remarkable extrapolative behavior towards untrained domains, such as surfaces or amorphous configurations. However, the origin of this extrapolation capability is not well understood. This work provides a theoretical explanation of how GNN-IPs extrapolate to untrained geometries. First, we demonstrate that GNN-IPs can capture non-local electrostatic interactions through the message-passing algorithm, as evidenced by tests on toy models and DFT data. We find that GNN-IP models, SevenNet and MACE, accurately predict electrostatic forces in untrained domains, indicating that they have learned the exact functional form of the Coulomb interaction. Based on these results, we suggest that the ability to learn non-local electrostatic interactions, coupled with the embedding nature of GNN-IPs, explains their extrapolation ability. We find that the universal GNN-IP, SevenNet-0, effectively infers non-local Coulomb interactions in untrained domains but fails to extrapolate the non-local forces arising from the kinetic term, which supports the suggested theory. Finally, we address the impact of hyperparameters on the extrapolation performance of universal potentials, such as SevenNet-0 and MACE-MP-0, and discuss the limitations of the extrapolation capabilities.


---
# Learning in Wilson-Cowan model for metapopulation

## 在Wilson-Cowan模型中学习的集合种群

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.16453

arXiv:2406.16453v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: The Wilson-Cowan model for metapopulation, a Neural Mass Network Model, treats different subcortical regions of the brain as connected nodes, with connections representing various types of structural, functional, or effective neuronal connectivity between these regions. Each region comprises interacting populations of excitatory and inhibitory cells, consistent with the standard Wilson-Cowan model. By incorporating stable attractors into such a metapopulation model's dynamics, we transform it into a learning algorithm capable of achieving high image and text classification accuracy. We test it on MNIST and Fashion MNIST, in combination with convolutional neural networks, on CIFAR-10 and TF-FLOWERS, and, in combination with a transformer architecture (BERT), on IMDB, always showing high classification accuracy. These numerical evaluations illustrate that minimal modifications to the Wilson-Cowan model for metapopulation can reveal unique and previously unobserved dynamics.


---
# PLUMED Tutorials: a collaborative, community-driven learning ecosystem

## PLUMED教程: 一个协作的，社区驱动的学习生态系统

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.03595

arXiv:2412.03595v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: In computational physics, chemistry, and biology, the implementation of new techniques in a shared and open source software lowers barriers to entry and promotes rapid scientific progress. However, effectively training new software users presents several challenges. Common methods like direct knowledge transfer and in-person workshops are limited in reach and comprehensiveness. Furthermore, while the COVID-19 pandemic highlighted the benefits of online training, traditional online tutorials can quickly become outdated and may not cover all the software's functionalities. To address these issues, here we introduce ``PLUMED Tutorials'', a collaborative model for developing, sharing, and updating online tutorials. This initiative utilizes repository management and continuous integration to ensure compatibility with software updates. Moreover, the tutorials are interconnected to form a structured learning path and are enriched with automatic annotations to provide broader context. This paper illustrates the development, features, and advantages of PLUMED Tutorials, aiming to foster an open community for creating and sharing educational resources.


---
# A Data-Driven Framework for Discovering Fractional Differential Equations in Complex Systems

## 数据驱动的复杂系统分数阶微分方程发现框架

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.03970

arXiv:2412.03970v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: In complex physical systems, conventional differential equations often fall short in capturing non-local and memory effects, as they are limited to local dynamics and integer-order interactions. This study introduces a stepwise data-driven framework for discovering fractional differential equations (FDEs) directly from data. FDEs, known for their capacity to model non-local dynamics with fewer parameters than integer-order derivatives, can represent complex systems with long-range interactions. Our framework applies deep neural networks as surrogate models for denoising and reconstructing sparse and noisy observations while using Gaussian-Jacobi quadrature to handle the challenges posed by singularities in fractional derivatives. To optimize both the sparse coefficients and fractional order, we employ an alternating optimization approach that combines sparse regression with global optimization techniques. We validate the framework across various datasets, including synthetic anomalous diffusion data, experimental data on the creep behavior of frozen soils, and single-particle trajectories modeled by L\'{e}vy motion. Results demonstrate the framework's robustness in identifying the structure of FDEs across diverse noise levels and its capacity to capture integer-order dynamics, offering a flexible approach for modeling memory effects in complex systems.


---
# A Note on Spectral Map

## 关于谱图的一个注记

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04011

arXiv:2412.04011v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: In molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, transitions between states are often rare events due to energy barriers that exceed the thermal temperature. Because of their infrequent occurrence and the huge number of degrees of freedom in molecular systems, understanding the physical properties that drive rare events is immensely difficult. A common approach to this problem is to propose a collective variable (CV) that describes this process by a simplified representation. However, choosing CVs is not easy, as it often relies on physical intuition. Machine learning (ML) techniques provide a promising approach for effectively extracting optimal CVs from MD data. Here, we provide a note on a recent unsupervised ML method called spectral map, which constructs CVs by maximizing the timescale separation between slow and fast variables in the system.


---
# Machine learning enhanced multi-particle tracking in solid fuel combustion

## 机器学习增强的固体燃料燃烧多粒子跟踪

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04091

arXiv:2412.04091v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Particle velocimetry is essential in solid fuel combustion studies, however, the accurate detection and tracking of particles in high Particle Number Density (PND) combustion scenario remain challenging. The current study advances the machine-learning approaches for precise velocity measurements of solid particles. For this, laser imaging experiments were performed for high-volatile bituminous coal particles burning in a laminar flow reactor. Particle positions were imaged using time-resolved Mie scattering. Various detection methods, including conventional blob detection and Machine Learning (ML) based You Only Look Once (YOLO) and Realtime Detection Transformer (RT-DETR) were employed and bench marked.~Particle tracking was performed using the Simple Online Realtime Tracking (SORT) algorithm. The results demonstrated the capability of machine learning models trained on low-PND data for prediction of high-PND data. Slicing Aided Hyper Inference (SAHI) algorithm is important for the better performance of the used models. By evaluating the velocity statistics, it is found that the mean particle velocity decreases with increasing PND, primarily due to stronger particle interactions. The particle dynamics are closely related to the position of combustion zone observed in the previous study. Thus, PND is considered as the dominant factor for the particle group combustion behavior of high-volatile solid fuels.


---
# Nonlinear unitary circuits for photonic neural networks

## 用于光子神经网络的非线性unit电路

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04112

arXiv:2412.04112v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Photonics has unlocked the potential for energy-efficient acceleration of deep learning. Most approaches toward photonic deep learning have diligently reproduced traditional deep learning architectures using photonic platforms, separately implementing linear-optical matrix calculations and nonlinear activations via electro-optical conversion, optical nonlinearities, and signal-encoded materials. Here we propose a concept of nonlinear unitary photonic circuits to achieve the integration of linear and nonlinear expressivity essential for deep neural networks. We devise a building block for two-dimensional nonlinear unitary operations, featuring norm-preserving mappings with nonconservative inner products, which enables the construction of high-dimensional nonlinear unitary circuits. Using deep nonlinear unitary circuits, we demonstrate exponential growth in trajectory length and near-complete coverage of the output space, both of which are essential for deep learning. Along with neuroevolutionary learning examples for the regression of a nonconvex function, our results pave the way to photonic neural networks with highly expressive inference and stable training.


---
# Methodology for Online Estimation of Rheological Parameters in Polymer Melts Using Deep Learning and Microfluidics

## 使用深度学习和微流体技术在线估计聚合物熔体流变参数的方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04142

arXiv:2412.04142v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Microfluidic devices are increasingly used in biological and chemical experiments due to their cost-effectiveness for rheological estimation in fluids. However, these devices often face challenges in terms of accuracy, size, and cost. This study presents a methodology, integrating deep learning, modeling and simulation to enhance the design of microfluidic systems, used to develop an innovative approach for viscosity measurement of polymer melts. We use synthetic data generated from the simulations to train a deep learning model, which then identifies rheological parameters of polymer melts from pressure drop and flow rate measurements in a microfluidic circuit, enabling online estimation of fluid properties. By improving the accuracy and flexibility of microfluidic rheological estimation, our methodology accelerates the design and testing of microfluidic devices, reducing reliance on physical prototypes, and offering significant contributions to the field.


---
# Uncovering Hidden Variables: A Physics Classroom Activity on Correlation and Causation

## 揭示隐藏变量: 关于相关性和因果关系的物理课堂活动

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04150

arXiv:2412.04150v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: One of the main goals of physics education is to develop in students the ability to think critically about data and scientific models. This skill is key in everyday life, as it allows one to interpret data accurately, evaluate whether conclusions are based on evidence, and distinguish between meaningful patterns and random occurrences. Although "correlation does not imply causation" it is common to make mistakes when interpreting relationships between variables, either due to bias or the human tendency to seek causal explanations. The history of science is filled with examples where causality was incorrectly inferred from correlation. In today's society, with the rise of fake news, misinterpretation, and data manipulation, educating students about scientific reasoning is more important than ever. In this paper, we present an activity aimed at high school physics students as part of an introductory module on scientific work. The learning objectives of this activity are to adequately plot a set of data, to extract relevant information from these data, and to clearly distinguish between correlation and causation. A brief overview of some types of correlation that do not imply causation follows, followed by a description of the activity, the results obtained, and finally the conclusions.


---
# On Deep-Learning-Based Closures for Algebraic Surrogate Models of Turbulent Flows

## 关于湍流代数代理模型的基于深度学习的闭包

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04239

arXiv:2412.04239v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: A deep-learning-based closure model to address energy loss in low-dimensional surrogate models based on proper-orthogonal-decomposition (POD) modes is introduced. Using a transformer-encoder block with easy-attention mechanism, the model predicts the spatial probability density function of fluctuations not captured by the truncated POD modes. The methodology is demonstrated on the wake of the Windsor body at yaw angles of [2.5,5,7.5,10,12.5], with 7.5 as a test case. Key coherent modes are identified by clustering them based on dominant frequency dynamics using Hotelling T2 on the spectral properties of temporal coefficients. These coherent modes account for nearly 60% of the total energy while comprising less than 10% of all modes. A common POD basis is created by concatenating coherent modes from training angles and orthonormalizing the set, reducing the basis vectors from 142 to 90 without losing information. Transformers with different size on the attention layer, (64, 128 and 256), are trained to model the missing fluctuations. Larger attention sizes always improve predictions for the training set, but the transformer with an attention layer of size 256 overshoots the fluctuations predictions in the test set because they have lower intensity than in the training cases. Adding the predicted fluctuations closes the energy gap between the reconstruction and the original flow field, improving predictions for energy, root-mean-square velocity fluctuations, and instantaneous flow fields. The deepest architecture reduces mean energy error from 37% to 12% and decreases the Kullback--Leibler divergence of velocity distributions from KL=0.2 to below KL=0.026.


---
# Multi-Subject Image Synthesis as a Generative Prior for Single-Subject PET Image Reconstruction

## 多主体图像合成作为单主体PET图像重建的生成先验

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04324

arXiv:2412.04324v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Large high-quality medical image datasets are difficult to acquire but necessary for many deep learning applications. For positron emission tomography (PET), reconstructed image quality is limited by inherent Poisson noise. We propose a novel method for synthesising diverse and realistic pseudo-PET images with improved signal-to-noise ratio. We also show how our pseudo-PET images may be exploited as a generative prior for single-subject PET image reconstruction. Firstly, we perform deep-learned deformable registration of multi-subject magnetic resonance (MR) images paired to multi-subject PET images. We then use the anatomically-learned deformation fields to transform multiple PET images to the same reference space, before averaging random subsets of the transformed multi-subject data to form a large number of varying pseudo-PET images. We observe that using MR information for registration imbues the resulting pseudo-PET images with improved anatomical detail compared to the originals. We consider applications to PET image reconstruction, by generating pseudo-PET images in the same space as the intended single-subject reconstruction and using them as training data for a diffusion model-based reconstruction method. We show visual improvement and reduced background noise in our 2D reconstructions as compared to OSEM, MAP-EM and an existing state-of-the-art diffusion model-based approach. Our method shows the potential for utilising highly subject-specific prior information within a generative reconstruction framework. Future work may compare the benefits of our approach to explicitly MR-guided reconstruction methodologies.


---
# Multi-Scale Node Embeddings for Graph Modeling and Generation

## 用于图建模和生成的多尺度节点嵌入

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04354

arXiv:2412.04354v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Lying at the interface between Network Science and Machine Learning, node embedding algorithms take a graph as input and encode its structure onto output vectors that represent nodes in an abstract geometric space, enabling various vector-based downstream tasks such as network modelling, data compression, link prediction, and community detection. Two apparently unrelated limitations affect these algorithms. On one hand, it is not clear what the basic operation defining vector spaces, i.e. the vector sum, corresponds to in terms of the original nodes in the network. On the other hand, while the same input network can be represented at multiple levels of resolution by coarse-graining the constituent nodes into arbitrary block-nodes, the relationship between node embeddings obtained at different hierarchical levels is not understood. Here, building on recent results in network renormalization theory, we address these two limitations at once and define a multiscale node embedding method that, upon arbitrary coarse-grainings, ensures statistical consistency of the embedding vector of a block-node with the sum of the embedding vectors of its constituent nodes. We illustrate the power of this approach on two economic networks that can be naturally represented at multiple resolution levels: namely, the international trade between (sets of) countries and the input-output flows among (sets of) industries in the Netherlands. We confirm the statistical consistency between networks retrieved from coarse-grained node vectors and networks retrieved from sums of fine-grained node vectors, a result that cannot be achieved by alternative methods. Several key network properties, including a large number of triangles, are successfully replicated already from embeddings of very low dimensionality, allowing for the generation of faithful replicas of the original networks at arbitrary resolution levels.


---
# ACE2-SOM: Coupling to a slab ocean and learning the sensitivity of climate to changes in CO$_2$

## ACE2-SOM: 耦合到平板海洋，学习气候对CO $_2 $ 变化的敏感性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04418

arXiv:2412.04418v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: While autoregressive machine-learning-based emulators have been trained to produce stable and accurate rollouts in the climate of the present-day and recent past, none so far have been trained to emulate the sensitivity of climate to substantial changes in CO$_2$ or other greenhouse gases. As an initial step we couple the Ai2 Climate Emulator version 2 to a slab ocean model (hereafter ACE2-SOM) and train it on output from a collection of equilibrium-climate physics-based reference simulations with varying levels of CO$_2$. We test it in equilibrium and non-equilibrium climate scenarios with CO$_2$ concentrations seen and unseen in training.
  ACE2-SOM performs well in equilibrium-climate inference with both in-sample and out-of-sample CO$_2$ concentrations, accurately reproducing the emergent time-mean spatial patterns of surface temperature and precipitation change with CO$_2$ doubling, tripling, or quadrupling. In addition, the vertical profile of atmospheric warming and change in extreme precipitation rates with increased CO$_2$ closely agree with the reference model. Non-equilibrium-climate inference is more challenging. With CO$_2$ increasing gradually at a rate of 2% year$^{-1}$, ACE2-SOM can accurately emulate the global annual mean trends of surface and lower-to-middle atmosphere fields but produces unphysical jumps in stratospheric fields. With an abrupt quadrupling of CO$_2$, ML-controlled fields transition unrealistically quickly to the 4xCO$_2$ regime. In doing so they violate global energy conservation and exhibit unphysical sensitivities of and surface and top of atmosphere radiative fluxes to instantaneous changes in CO$_2$. Future emulator development needed to address these issues should improve its generalizability to diverse climate change scenarios.


---
# Nonlinear Optimal Control of Electron Dynamics within Hartree-Fock Theory

## Hartree-fock理论中电子动力学的非线性最优控制

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.03672

arXiv:2412.03672v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Consider the problem of determining the optimal applied electric field to drive a molecule from an initial state to a desired target state. For even moderately sized molecules, solving this problem directly using the exact equations of motion -- the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation (TDSE) -- is numerically intractable. We present a solution of this problem within time-dependent Hartree-Fock (TDHF) theory, a mean field approximation of the TDSE. Optimality is defined in terms of minimizing the total control effort while maximizing the overlap between desired and achieved target states. We frame this problem as an optimization problem constrained by the nonlinear TDHF equations; we solve it using trust region optimization with gradients computed via a custom-built adjoint state method. For three molecular systems, we show that with very small neural network parametrizations of the control, our method yields solutions that achieve desired targets within acceptable constraints and tolerances.


---
# Interpreting Transformers for Jet Tagging

## 解释用于Jet标记的变压器

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.03673

arXiv:2412.03673v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Machine learning (ML) algorithms, particularly attention-based transformer models, have become indispensable for analyzing the vast data generated by particle physics experiments like ATLAS and CMS at the CERN LHC. Particle Transformer (ParT), a state-of-the-art model, leverages particle-level attention to improve jet-tagging tasks, which are critical for identifying particles resulting from proton collisions. This study focuses on interpreting ParT by analyzing attention heat maps and particle-pair correlations on the $\eta$-$\phi$ plane, revealing a binary attention pattern where each particle attends to at most one other particle. At the same time, we observe that ParT shows varying focus on important particles and subjets depending on decay, indicating that the model learns traditional jet substructure observables. These insights enhance our understanding of the model's internal workings and learning process, offering potential avenues for improving the efficiency of transformer architectures in future high-energy physics applications.


---
# A Hybrid Deep-Learning Model for El Ni\~no Southern Oscillation in the Low-Data Regime

## 低数据条件下El Ni \ ~ no南方涛动的混合深度学习模型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.03743

arXiv:2412.03743v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: While deep-learning models have demonstrated skillful El Ni\~no Southern Oscillation (ENSO) forecasts up to one year in advance, they are predominantly trained on climate model simulations that provide thousands of years of training data at the expense of introducing climate model biases. Simpler Linear Inverse Models (LIMs) trained on the much shorter observational record also make skillful ENSO predictions but do not capture predictable nonlinear processes. This motivates a hybrid approach, combining the LIMs modest data needs with a deep-learning non-Markovian correction of the LIM. For O(100 yr) datasets, our resulting Hybrid model is more skillful than the LIM while also exceeding the skill of a full deep-learning model. Additionally, while the most predictable ENSO events are still identified in advance by the LIM, they are better predicted by the Hybrid model, especially in the western tropical Pacific for leads beyond about 9 months, by capturing the subsequent asymmetric (warm versus cold phases) evolution of ENSO.


---
# A large language model-type architecture for high-dimensional molecular potential energy surfaces

## 高维分子势能表面的大型语言模型型体系结构

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.03831

arXiv:2412.03831v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Computing high dimensional potential surfaces for molecular and materials systems is considered to be a great challenge in computational chemistry with potential impact in a range of areas including fundamental prediction of reaction rates. In this paper we design and discuss an algorithm that has similarities to large language models in generative AI and natural language processing. Specifically, we represent a molecular system as a graph which contains a set of nodes, edges, faces etc. Interactions between these sets, which represent molecular subsystems in our case, are used to construct the potential energy surface for a reasonably sized chemical system with 51 dimensions. Essentially a family of neural networks that pertain to the graph-based subsystems, get the job done for this 51 dimensional system. We then ask if this same family of lower-dimensional neural networks can be transformed to provide accurate predictions for a 186 dimensional potential surface. We find that our algorithm does provide reasonably accurate results for this larger dimensional problem with sub-kcal/mol accuracy for the higher dimensional potential surface problem.


---
# Deep priors for satellite image restoration with accurate uncertainties

## 具有精确不确定性的卫星图像恢复的深度先验

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04130

arXiv:2412.04130v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Satellite optical images, upon their on-ground receipt, offer a distorted view of the observed scene. Their restoration, classically including denoising, deblurring, and sometimes super-resolution, is required before their exploitation. Moreover, quantifying the uncertainty related to this restoration could be valuable by lowering the risk of hallucination and avoiding propagating these biases in downstream applications. Deep learning methods are now state-of-the-art for satellite image restoration. However, they require to train a specific network for each sensor and they do not provide the associated uncertainties. This paper proposes a generic method involving a single network to restore images from several sensors and a scalable way to derive the uncertainties. We focus on deep regularization (DR) methods, which learn a deep prior on target images before plugging it into a model-based optimization scheme. First, we introduce VBLE-xz, which solves the inverse problem in the latent space of a variational compressive autoencoder, estimating the uncertainty jointly in the latent and in the image spaces. It enables scalable posterior sampling with relevant and calibrated uncertainties. Second, we propose the denoiser-based method SatDPIR, adapted from DPIR, which efficiently computes accurate point estimates. We conduct a comprehensive set of experiments on very high resolution simulated and real Pleiades images, asserting both the performance and robustness of the proposed methods. VBLE-xz and SatDPIR achieve state-of-the-art results compared to direct inversion methods. In particular, VBLE-xz is a scalable method to get realistic posterior samples and accurate uncertainties, while SatDPIR represents a compelling alternative to direct inversion methods when uncertainty quantification is not required.


---
# Physics-informed Deep Learning for Muscle Force Prediction with Unlabeled sEMG Signals

## 基于物理学的深度学习，使用未标记的sEMG信号进行肌肉力量预测

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04213

arXiv:2412.04213v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Computational biomechanical analysis plays a pivotal role in understanding and improving human movements and physical functions. Although physics-based modeling methods can interpret the dynamic interaction between the neural drive to muscle dynamics and joint kinematics, they suffer from high computational latency. In recent years, data-driven methods have emerged as a promising alternative due to their fast execution speed, but label information is still required during training, which is not easy to acquire in practice. To tackle these issues, this paper presents a novel physics-informed deep learning method to predict muscle forces without any label information during model training. In addition, the proposed method could also identify personalized muscle-tendon parameters. To achieve this, the Hill muscle model-based forward dynamics is embedded into the deep neural network as the additional loss to further regulate the behavior of the deep neural network. Experimental validations on the wrist joint from six healthy subjects are performed, and a fully connected neural network (FNN) is selected to implement the proposed method. The predicted results of muscle forces show comparable or even lower root mean square error (RMSE) and higher coefficient of determination compared with baseline methods, which have to use the labeled surface electromyography (sEMG) signals, and it can also identify muscle-tendon parameters accurately, demonstrating the effectiveness of the proposed physics-informed deep learning method.


---
# PDMD: Potential-free Data-driven Molecular Dynamics for Variable-sized Water Clusters

## PDMD: 可变尺寸水团簇的无电位数据驱动分子动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04442

arXiv:2412.04442v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Conventional molecular dynamics (MD) simulation approaches, such as ab initio MD and empirical force field MD, face significant trade-offs between physical accuracy and computational efficiency. This work presents a novel Potential-free Data-driven Molecular Dynamics (PDMD) framework for predicting system energy and atomic forces of variable-sized water clusters. Specifically, PDMD employs the smooth overlap of atomic positions descriptor to generate high-dimensional, equivariant features before leveraging ChemGNN, a graph neural network model that adaptively learns the atomic chemical environments without requiring a priori knowledge. Through an iterative self-consistent training approach, the converged PDMD achieves a mean absolute error of 7.1 meV/atom for energy and 59.8 meV/angstrom for forces, outperforming the state-of-the-art DeepMD by ~80% in energy accuracy and ~200% in force prediction. As a result, PDMD can reproduce the ab initio MD properties of water clusters at a tiny fraction of its computational cost. These results demonstrate that the proposed PDMD offers multiple-phase predictive power, enabling ultra-fast, general-purpose MD simulations while retaining ab initio accuracy.


---
# Developing a Thailand solar irradiance map using Himawari-8 satellite imageries and deep learning models

## 使用Himawari-8卫星图像和深度学习模型开发泰国太阳辐照度图

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.16320

arXiv:2409.16320v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: This paper presents an online platform showing Thailand solar irradiance map every 30 minutes, available at https://www.cusolarforecast.com. The methodology for estimating global horizontal irradiance (GHI) across Thailand relies on cloud index extracted from Himawari-8 satellite imagery, Ineichen clear-sky model with locally-tuned Linke turbidity, and machine learning models. The methods take clear-sky irradiance, cloud index, re-analyzed GHI and temperature data from the MERRA-2 database, and date-time as inputs for GHI estimation models, including LightGBM, LSTM, Informer, and Transformer. These are benchmarked with the estimate from a commercial service X by evaluation of 15-minute ground GHI data from 53 ground stations over 1.5 years during 2022-2023. The results show that the four models exhibit comparable overall MAE performance to the service X. The best model is LightGBM with an overall MAE of 78.58 W/sqm and RMSE of 118.97 W/sqm, while the service X achieves the lowest MAE, RMSE, and MBE in cloudy condition. Obtaining re-analyzed MERRA-2 data for the whole Thailand region is not economically feasible for deployment. When removing these features, the Informer model has a winning performance in MAE of 78.67 W/sqm. The obtained performance aligns with existing literature by taking the climate zone and time granularity of data into consideration. As the map shows an estimate of GHI over 93,000 grids with a frequent update, the paper also describes a computational framework for displaying the entire map. It tests the runtime performance of deep learning models in the GHI estimation process.


---
# Regularization by Neural Style Transfer for MRI Field-Transfer Reconstruction with Limited Data

## 有限数据MRI场转移重建的神经风格转移正则化

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.10968

arXiv:2308.10968v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Recent advances in MRI reconstruction have achieved remarkable success with deep learning-based models. However, most methods depend on large-scale, task-specific datasets, leaving reconstruction in data-limited settings as a critical but underexplored challenge. Regularization by denoising (RED) is a general pipeline that incorporates a denoiser as a prior for image reconstruction, showing promising results in various image processing tasks, including denoising, deblurring, and super-resolution. In this work, we propose a regularization by neural style transfer (RNST) method to further leverage the priors from the neural transfer and denoising engine. RNST effectively reconstructs high-quality images from noisy, low-quality inputs across varying image styles, even with limited data. We validate RNST on clinical MRI scans, demonstrating its ability to significantly improve image quality. These findings underline the potential of RNST for MRI field-transfer reconstruction and its promise in addressing reconstruction tasks in data-constrained scenarios.


---
# Learning to Reconstruct Accelerated MRI Through K-space Cold Diffusion without Noise

## 学习通过无噪声的K空间冷扩散重建加速MRI

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.10162

arXiv:2311.10162v3 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Deep learning-based MRI reconstruction models have achieved superior performance these days. Most recently, diffusion models have shown remarkable performance in image generation, in-painting, super-resolution, image editing and more. As a generalized diffusion model, cold diffusion further broadens the scope and considers models built around arbitrary image transformations such as blurring, down-sampling, etc. In this paper, we propose a k-space cold diffusion model that performs image degradation and restoration in k-space without the need for Gaussian noise. We provide comparisons with multiple deep learning-based MRI reconstruction models and perform tests on a well-known large open-source MRI dataset. Our results show that this novel way of performing degradation can generate high-quality reconstruction images for accelerated MRI.


---
# Phase transitions of correlated systems from graph neural networks with quantum embedding techniques

## 来自具有量子嵌入技术的图神经网络的相关系统的相变

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.08782

arXiv:2404.08782v3 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Correlated systems represent a class of materials that are difficult to describe through traditional electronic structure methods. The computational demand to simulate the structural dynamics of such systems, with correlation effects considered, is substantial. Here, we investigate the structural dynamics of $f$- and $d$-electron correlated systems by integrating quantum embedding techniques with interatomic potentials derived from graph neural networks. For Cerium, a prototypical correlated $f$-electron system, we use Density Functional Theory with the Gutzwiller approximation to generate training data due to efficiency with which correlations effects are included for large multi-orbital systems. For Nickel Oxide, a prototypical correlated $d$-electron system, advancements in computational capabilities now permit the use of full Dynamical Mean Field Theory to obtain energies and forces. We train neural networks on this data to create a model of the potential energy surface, enabling rapid and effective exploration of structural dynamics. Utilizing these potentials, we delineate transition pathways between the $\alpha$, $\alpha'$, and $\alpha''$ phases of Cerium and predict the melting curve of Nickel Oxide. Our results demonstrate the potential of machine learning potentials to accelerate the study of strongly correlated systems, offering a scalable approach to explore and understand the complex physics governing these materials.


---
# Objective Features Extracted from Motor Activity Time Series for Food Addiction Analysis Using Machine Learning

## 从运动活动时间序列中提取客观特征，使用机器学习进行食物成瘾分析

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.00310

arXiv:2409.00310v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: This study investigates machine learning algorithms to identify objective features for diagnosing food addiction (FA) and assessing confirmed symptoms (SC). Data were collected from 81 participants (mean age: 21.5 years, range: 18-61 years, women: 77.8%) whose FA and SC were measured using the Yale Food Addiction Scale (YFAS). Participants provided demographic and anthropometric data, completed the YFAS, the Zung Self-Rating Depression Scale, and the Dutch Eating Behavior Questionnaire, and wore an actimeter on the non-dominant wrist for a week to record motor activity. Analysis of the actimetric data identified significant statistical and entropy-based features that accurately predicted FA and SC using ML. The Matthews correlation coefficient (MCC) was the primary metric. Activity-related features were more effective for FA prediction (MCC=0.88) than rest-related features (MCC=0.68). For SC, activity segments yielded MCC=0.47, rest segments MCC=0.38, and their combination MCC=0.51. Significant correlations were also found between actimetric features related to FA, emotional, and restrained eating behaviors, supporting the model's validity. Our results support the concept of a human bionic suite composed of IoT devices and ML sensors, which implements health digital assistance with real-time monitoring and analysis of physiological indicators related to FA and SC.


---
# Enhancing Fluorescence Lifetime Parameter Estimation Accuracy with Differential Transformer Based Deep Learning Model Incorporating Pixelwise Instrument Response Function

## 结合逐像素仪器响应函数的基于差分变压器的深度学习模型提高荧光寿命参数估计精度

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.16896

arXiv:2411.16896v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Fluorescence Lifetime Imaging (FLI) is a critical molecular imaging modality that provides unique information about the tissue microenvironment, which is invaluable for biomedical applications. FLI operates by acquiring and analyzing photon time-of-arrival histograms to extract quantitative parameters associated with temporal fluorescence decay. These histograms are influenced by the intrinsic properties of the fluorophore, instrument parameters, time-of-flight distributions associated with pixel-wise variations in the topographic and optical characteristics of the sample. Recent advancements in Deep Learning (DL) have enabled improved fluorescence lifetime parameter estimation. However, existing models are primarily designed for planar surface samples, limiting their applicability in translational scenarios involving complex surface profiles, such as \textit{in-vivo} whole-animal or imaged guided surgical applications. To address this limitation, we present MFliNet (Macroscopic FLI Network), a novel DL architecture that integrates the Instrument Response Function (IRF) as an additional input alongside experimental photon time-of-arrival histograms. Leveraging the capabilities of a Differential Transformer encoder-decoder architecture, MFliNet effectively focuses on critical input features, such as variations in photon time-of-arrival distributions. We evaluate MFliNet using rigorously designed tissue-mimicking phantoms and preclinical in-vivo cancer xenograft models. Our results demonstrate the model's robustness and suitability for complex macroscopic FLI applications, offering new opportunities for advanced biomedical imaging in diverse and challenging settings.


---
# PM6-ML: The Synergy of Semiempirical Quantum Chemistry and Machine Learning Transformed into a Practical Computational Method

## PM6-ML: 半经验量子化学与机器学习协同转化为实用计算方法

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-3nwwv-v3?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Machine learning (ML) methods offer a promising route to the construction of universal molecular potentials with high accuracy and low computational cost. It is becoming evident that integrating physical principles into these models, or utilizing them in a ∆-ML scheme, significantly enhances their robustness and transferability. This paper introduces PM6-ML, a ∆-ML method that synergizes the semiempir- ical quantum-mechanical (SQM) method PM6 with a state-of-the-art ML poten- tial applied as a universal correction. The method demonstrates superior perfor- mance over standalone SQM and ML approaches and covers a broader chemical space than its predecessors. It is scalable to systems with thousands of atoms, which makes it applicable to large biomolecular systems. Extensive benchmarking confirms PM6-ML’s accuracy and robustness. Its practical application is facili- tated by a direct interface to MOPAC. The code and parameters are available at https://github.com/Honza-R/mopac-ml.


---
# Learning descriptors to predict organic structure-directing agent applicability in zeolite synthesis

## 学习描述符以预测沸石合成中有机结构导向剂的适用性

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-mbg26-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Zeolite synthesis frequently relies on organic structure-directing agents (OSDAs), but the process of identifying the best OSDA to synthesize a given zeolite remains difficult. We use previously gathered binding energy data, in additional to the formation energies of the siliceous zeolite frameworks and approximate binding entropies of OSDAs to develop new descriptors to improve predictions based on known OSDA-zeolite pairs in the literature. Our earlier work used templating energy (Eij,T) to rank the most likely OSDA-zeolite pairs to be produced from synthesis. Using literature recall area-under-the-curve (AUC) as a performance metric, we find that computing energies associated with the net transformation that occurs during zeolite synthesis (the sum of the formation energy of the zeolite framework and the OSDA binding energy) provides a modest improvement over Eij,T when predicting the zeolite phase that a given OSDA produces, from 67.5% average literature recall to 72.3%, but negligibly improves predictions for the best OSDA for a given zeolite framework, from 68.3% to 68.8%. We then use machine learning symbolic regression to develop a new descriptor, which we call αij,T, that slightly improves upon Eij,T for predicting an OSDA for a given framework, with an average literature recall of 71.8%. While zeolite synthesis remains difficult to predict a priori, the approaches used in this work provide one option for improving these predictions.


---
# Neural Mulliken Analysis: Molecular Graphs from Density Matrices for QSPR on Raw Quantum-Chemical Data

## 神经Mulliken分析: 原始量子化学数据上QSPR的密度矩阵的分子图

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-k2k3l?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Since the introduction of Graph Neural Networks (GNNs), molecular graphs have become useful tools in chemical informatics. However, in property prediction tasks, graph embeddings often still resemble traditional fingerprints. Here, we propose a straightforward approach to provide modern GNNs with raw quantum-chemical data, enabling efficient solutions to a range of chemical machine-learning problems. The central role is played by the 1-electron density matrix derived from quantum chemical calculations (e.g. Hartree-Fock, DFT). The diagonal blocks of the density matrix are used as embeddings for the atomic nodes (“atoms”) in the molecular graph. Unlike conventional molecular graph representations, the chemical bond concept is not used. Instead, an additional set of nodes (“links”) between pairs of atoms is introduced. Their embeddings are the off-diagonal blocks of the density matrix, related to particular atom pairs. Directed graph edges connect either “atoms” with “links” or vice versa. The embeddings of the edges are derived from the basis set overlap matrix. The overlaps serve two purposes: first, they encode structural information such as distances and angles. Second, they act as weights in pooling operations. The use of element-wise multiplication of densities and overlaps is inspired by the Mulliken population analysis scheme. The proposed concept was further tested using the Solubility Challenge (2008) by Llinàs et al. (DOI: 10.1021/ci800058v). A GNN was trained on a small dataset comprising 94 aqueous solubilities of drug-like molecules and subsequently used to predict the aqueous solubilities of 28 test molecules. The model achieved an RM SE of 0.68 and an R 2 of 0.76, outperforming all methods proposed at that time. In our view, this represents a promising approach, particularly considering that even in a preliminary test the proposed architecture seems to be able to achieve state-of-the-art accuracy.


---
# Transformer-based Travel Time Estimation Method for Plateau and Mountainous Environments

## 基于变压器的高原山地环境行程时间估算方法

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5082531/latest

Current research and applications on travel time estimation primarily concentrate on urban scenarios and are unable to fulfil the necessary criteria in regions characterized by plateau and mountainous topography. In this study, a set of terrain-weather features, comprising attributes of terrain and weather, was devised to reflect the factors influencing the travel time in such settings, catering for predicating travel times in those environments. A Transformer-based travel time estimation model was developed, which can improve the estimation accuracy in paths with extensive trajectory points by leveraging the long-distance dependency capture capabilities. A meta-learning strategy was employed to enhance the model's generalization ability and ensure its applicability to accurate estimation in a range of challenging environments. The experimental results substantiated the superior performance and applicability of the proposed method and demonstrated that it is capable of meeting the travel time estimation requirements in complex environments.


---
# Assessment of Bimodal Machine Learning framework in predicting air quality index articulated as numerical and text encoded targets over urban centers

## 双峰机器学习框架在预测城市中心空气质量指数中的评估，这些指数被表述为数字和文本编码目标

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5568755/latest

Machine learning tools were used in this study to extract information on prediction capabilities using regression and classification modalities. PM10, PM2.5, NO, NO2, NOX, NH3, SO2, CO, O3, Benzene, Toluene, and Xylene were used as predictors. AQI was a target variable with numerical and text-encoded values. Nineteen regressor and fifteen classifier models were tested for prediction capabilities, and features influencing AQI prediction were presented. We used six evaluation metrics, i.e., MAE, MSE, RMSE, R2, RMSLE, and MAPE, under regression mode and Accuracy, AUC, Recall, Precision, F1, Kappa, and MCC for classification mode. When regression mode was used, we observed that the Extra Trees Regressor performed well with an R2 of 0.94. For classification mode, the Random Forest Classifier performed relatively better with an accuracy and precision of 0.824. We observed that PM2.5 and PM10 are vital in AQI prediction under regression mode, and PM10 and PM2.5 are essential in classification mode. We conclude that Particulate matter is crucial in predicting AQI over the stations we considered and is supported by ML-based observations.


---
# Improving students&rsquo; professional communicative competence in TEFL context

## 在英语教学环境下提高学生的专业交际能力

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5584095/latest

This study addresses the challenge of improving students&rsquo; professional communicative competence in Teaching English as a Foreign Language (TEFL) contexts, recognizing the growing importance of English in global professional environments. A mixed-methods approach was employed, involving 120 undergraduate students in a 12-week intensive course. The intervention included simulated workplace scenarios, authentic materials, project-based learning, technology integration, and guest lectures. Data were collected through pre- and post-tests, questionnaires, classroom observations, semi-structured interviews, and reflective journals. Quantitative findings revealed significant improvements across all language skills, with speaking showing the highest increase (28.5Questionnaire results indicated enhanced self-perceived competence in professional communication. Qualitative data from observations and interviews highlighted increased student participation, improved use of professional vocabulary, and greater confidence in professional communication scenarios. The integration of quantitative and qualitative findings demonstrates the effectiveness of the intervention in enhancing students&rsquo; professional communicative competence. The study underscores the value of a focused, practical approach to teaching professional communication in TEFL contexts, preparing students more effectively for the demands of English use in professional settings.


---
# Inverse and dynamic levels of H3K4me3 and H3K27me3 regulate mouse postnatal dentate gyrus development

## H3K4me3和H3K27me3的反向和动态水平调节小鼠出生后齿状回的发育

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5502578/latest

Dentate gyrus (DG) is part of the hippocampus formation and primarily mature after birth. It undergoes rapid early development followed by a protracted developmental process and is crucial for learning and memory. This unique developmental trajectory challenge mechanistic studies and our understanding of its regulatory processes are limited. Our study demonstrates that histone H3K4me3 and H3K27me3 are essential in regulating DG development. H3K4me3, which is enriched in the subgranular zone, promotes the proliferation and differentiation of neural stem cells (NSCs) into GABAergic neurons, thereby enhancing spatial learning and memory in mice. Conversely, enhancing H3K27me3 levels exert the opposite effect, additionally driving NSCs into a quiescent-like state. Furthermore, we show that H3K4me3 and H3K27me3 co-regulate the expression of genes essential for neural development, such as GLI1, through the formation of bivalent domains. These findings indicate that H3K4me3 and H3K27me3 act as molecular &ldquo;switches&rdquo; governing DG development.


---
# Cognitive Training with Adaptive Algorithm improves Cognitive Ability in Elderly With MCI

## 基于自适应算法的认知训练对老年MCI患者认知能力的改善作用

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5188215/latest

Recent discoveries indicating that the brain retains its ability to adapt and change throughout life have sparked interest in cognitive training (CT) as a possible means to postpone the development of dementia. Despite this, most research has focused on confirming the efficacy of training outcomes, with few studies examining the correlation between performance and results across various stages of training. In particular, the relationship between initial performance and the extent of improvement, the rate of learning, and the asymptotic performance level throughout the learning curve remains ambiguous. In this study, older adults underwent ten days of selective attention training using an adaptive algorithm, which enabled a detailed analysis of the learning curve's progression. Cognitive abilities were assessed before and after CT using the Mini-mental State Examination (MMSE) and the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA). The findings indicated that: (1) within the learning curve, superior initial performance was associated with greater improvement, quicker learning rates, and a lower asymptotic performance level; (2) higher pre-training MMSE scores predicted higher post-training MMSE scores but less improvement; (3) higher pre-training MoCA scores predicted higher post-training MoCA scores and less improvement; (4) the parameters of the learning curve did not correlate with performance on the MMSE or MoCA; and (5) age did not correlate with any of the variables examined. These results suggest that selective attention training with an adaptive algorithm is an effective tool for cognitive intervention and supports the compensation hypothesis.


---
# Hyperbolic Graph Convolutional NetworkRelation Extraction Model CombiningDependency Syntax and Contrastive Learning

## 结合依赖句法和对比学习的双曲图卷积网络关系提取模型

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5199149/latest

In current relation extraction tasks, when the input sentence structure is complex,the performance of in-context learning methods based on large language modelis still lower than that of traditional pre-train fine-tune models. For complex sen-tence structures, dependency syntax information can provide effective prior textstructure information for relation extraction. However, most studies are affectedby the noise in the syntactic information automatically extracted by natural lan-guage processing toolkits. Additionally, traditional pre-training encoders haveissues such as an overly centralized representation of word embedding for high-frequency words, which adversely affects the model to learn contextual semanticinformation. To address proposed problem, the paper proposes a HyperbolicGraph Convolutional Network Relation Extraction Model Combine DependencySyntax and Contrastive Learning. Based on the hyperbolic graph neural net-work, dependent syntactic information and information optimization strategiesare introduced to solve the problem of word embedding concentration. Simulta-neously, to mitigate the impact of noise in dependency syntax information onthe relation extraction task, a contrastive learning approach is employed. Afterthe model learns context semantics separately in the original dependency syn-tax information and dependency syntax information with added random noise,it maximizes the mutual information between entity words to assist the modelin distinguishing noise in dependency syntax. The experiments indicate that theproposed model in this paper can effectively enhance the performance of relationextraction on public datasets, especially achieving significantly higher precisionon datasets with complex sentence structures compared to in-context learning.

