# Magnetic order sets the stage

## 磁序奠定了舞台

Link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41567-024-02772-x

**Authors:** Michael Smidman

<p>Nature Physics, Published online: 17 February 2025; <a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/s41567-024-02772-x">doi:10.1038/s41567-024-02772-x</a></p>High-temperature superconductivity has been found in a nickelate material under pressure, but the underlying state is unclear. Muons now show that the material hosts distinct phases that evolve differently with increasing pressure.


---
# Quadruple-well ferroelectricity and moderate switching barrier in defective wurtzite α-Al<sub>2</sub>S<sub>3</sub>: a first-principles study

## 缺陷纤锌矿 α-al &lt;sub&gt;2&lt;/sub&gt;S&lt;sub&gt;3&lt;/sub&gt; 中的四阱铁电性和适度的开关势垒: 第一性原理研究

Link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41524-025-01519-3

**Authors:** Hirofumi Akamatsu

<p>npj Computational Materials, Published online: 17 February 2025; <a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/s41524-025-01519-3">doi:10.1038/s41524-025-01519-3</a></p>Quadruple-well ferroelectricity and moderate switching barrier in defective wurtzite α-Al<sub>2</sub>S<sub>3</sub>: a first-principles study


---
# Study of evolution of three-dimensional 
porous structure in zeolite-templated carbons

## 三维演化研究
沸石模板碳中的多孔结构

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-9gg7z-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Rodney, Ruoff

The clogging of zeolites with carbon-containing precursors is an industrial challenge in some applications but when the deposition of carbon is deliberate and ‘works well’, a source of carbon material with intriguing properties in others. Zeolite-templated carbons (ZTCs) are often compared to activated carbons due to their shared characteristics, such as high surface area, chemical composition, and thermal and chemical stability under various conditions. However, the key distinction lies in their controllable pore size, which makes ZTCs exceptionally interesting materials.
 Since the late 1990s, extensive research has been conducted on ZTCs, exploring different zeolite templates, carbon precursors, and synthesis parameters. Yet, despite significant progress, the field still faces unresolved questions, controversies, and aspects that have been overlooked. 
We report synthesis and characterization of three-dimensional porous carbon structures by using ion-exchanged faujasite zeolite as template. The progression of carbon networks from the initial to the final stages of growth inside zeolite channels was studied by transmission and scanning electron microscopy, gas adsorption, thermogravimetric analysis, X-ray diffraction, Raman spectroscopy, and solid state nuclear magnetic resonance. Atomic-resolution images obtained with integrated differential phase contrast scanning transmission electron microscopy (iDPC-STEM) were used to study both the zeolite and carbon structure inside the zeolite pores. 
Argon and CO2 adsorption isotherms show that the inner and the outer pore volumes (that we label V1 and V2) and surface areas (that we label S1 and S2) of the hollow carbon networks can be distinguished in the pore size distribution curves; to the best of our knowledge, this is the first time that these pore volumes and BET surface areas have been separately determined. For this porous carbon product, V1=0.14 cm3/g and S1=500 m2/g, and V2=0.99 cm3/g and S2=1640 m2/g. The iDPC-STEM and gas adsorption studies, as a function of time of exposure to acetylene during synthesis, provide new insights into the growth of zeolite-templated carbons and thus of carbons having both “inner” (enclosing V1 and generating S1) and “outer” (enclosing V2 and generating S2) volumes and surfaces after removal of the zeolite.


---
# Accurate Calculation of 3-D Model of a New Type of Double Stator Permanent Magnet Spherical Motor

## 新型双定子永磁球形电机三维模型的精确计算

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-6027774/latest

A new type of double stator multi-DOF permanent magnet spherical motor (DS-PMSM) is proposed, which consists of two stators and a hollow rotor with PMs attached to its inner and outer surfaces. Through the joint action of the rotating motor and six arc-shaped permanent magnet linear motor arrays, it can realize the helical motion of continuously changing the direction of the rotating shaft, and can be applied to fields requiring multi-DOF motion such as industrial robots, aerospace, satellite communication. Considering that the spherical structure of the new motor has curvature in the circumferential direction and the axial direction, the curvature in the circumferential direction corresponds to the preliminary design of the 2-D cross-section, and the curvature in the axial direction corresponds to the accurate calculation of the 3-D model. Based on the preliminary design of 2-D cross-section of motor in the last article, an ideal 3-D structure is designed. Due to the limitation of existing machining technology, it can not meet the machining requirements of ideal spherical motor. Therefore, the structure is improved and the key parameters are optimized. Firstly, the improvement of the ideal spherical motor structure is described in detail. Considering the influence of helical motion on rotary motion, the optimal flattening coefficient of the inner PM is selected, and the inner PM are optimized in sections, so as to meet the electromagnetic performance and deflection angle and reduce the processing cost and difficulty. A torque measurement system platform based on six-axis force sensor is built to measure the influence of different rotation speed, deflection angle and stator current on the measured torque. The research results provide some reference value for the design of this kind of spherical motor.

