# Machine learning for practical quantum error mitigation

## 用于实际量子误差缓解的机器学习

Link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s42256-024-00927-2

<p>Nature Machine Intelligence, Published online: 22 November 2024; <a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/s42256-024-00927-2">doi:10.1038/s42256-024-00927-2</a></p>Quantum error mitigation improves the accuracy of quantum computers at a computational overhead. Liao et al. demonstrate that classical machine learning models can deliver accuracy comparable to that of conventional techniques while reducing quantum computational costs.


---
# Neural network potential for dislocation plasticity in ceramics

## 陶瓷中位错塑性的神经网络潜力

Link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41524-024-01456-7

<p>npj Computational Materials, Published online: 22 November 2024; <a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/s41524-024-01456-7">doi:10.1038/s41524-024-01456-7</a></p>Neural network potential for dislocation plasticity in ceramics


---
# Exhaustive search for novel multicomponent alloys with brute force and machine learning

## 穷举寻找具有蛮力和机器学习的新型多元合金

Link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41524-024-01452-x

<p>npj Computational Materials, Published online: 22 November 2024; <a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/s41524-024-01452-x">doi:10.1038/s41524-024-01452-x</a></p>Exhaustive search for novel multicomponent alloys with brute force and machine learning


---
# Efficient mapping of phase diagrams with conditional Boltzmann Generators

## 使用条件玻尔兹曼生成器对相图进行有效映射

Link: http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2632-2153/ad849d

The accurate prediction of phase diagrams is of central importance for both the fundamental understanding of materials as well as for technological applications in material sciences. However, the computational prediction of the relative stability between phases based on their free energy is a daunting task, as traditional free energy estimators require a large amount of simulation data to obtain uncorrelated equilibrium samples over a grid of thermodynamic states. In this work, we develop deep generative machine learning models based on the Boltzmann Generator approach for entire phase diagrams, employing normalizing flows conditioned on the thermodynamic states, e.g. temperature and pressure, that they map to. By training a single normalizing flow to transform the equilibrium distribution sampled at only one reference thermodynamic state to a wide range of target temperatures and pressures, we can efficiently generate equilibrium samples across the entire phase diagram. Using a permutation-equivariant architecture allows us, thereby, to treat solid and liquid phases on the same footing. We demonstrate our approach by predicting the solid–liquid coexistence line for a Lennard-Jones system in excellent agreement with state-of-the-art free energy methods while significantly reducing the number of energy evaluations needed.


---
# Machine learning visualization tool for exploring parameterized hydrodynamics *

## 用于探索参数化流体力学的机器学习可视化工具 *

Link: http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2632-2153/ad8daa

We are interested in the computational study of shock hydrodynamics, i.e. problems involving compressible solids, liquids, and gases that undergo large deformation. These problems are dynamic and nonlinear and can exhibit complex instabilities. Due to advances in high performance computing it is possible to parameterize a hydrodynamic problem and perform a computational study yielding of simulation state data. We present an interactive machine learning tool that can be used to compress, browse, and interpolate these large simulation datasets. This tool allows computational scientists and researchers to quickly visualize ‘what-if’ situations, perform sensitivity analyses, and optimize complex hydrodynamic experiments.


---
# MSMGE-CNN: a multi-scale multi-graph embedding convolutional neural network for motor related EEG decoding

## Msmge-cnn: 用于运动相关EEG解码的多尺度多图嵌入卷积神经网络

Link: http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2632-2153/ad9135

Deep learning technique has been widely used for decoding motor related electroencephalography (EEG) signals, which has considerably driven the development of motor related brain–computer interfaces (BCIs). However, traditional convolutional neural networks (CNNs) cannot fully represent spatial topology information and dynamic temporal characteristics of multi-channel EEG signals, resulting in limited decoding accuracy. To address such challenges, a novel multi-scale multi-graph embedding CNN (MSMGE-CNN) is proposed in this study. The proposed MSMGE-CNN contains two crucial components: multi-scale time convolution and multi-graph embedding. Specifically, we design a multi-branch CNN architecture with mixed-scale time convolutions based on EEGNet to sufficiently extract robust time domain features. Afterward, we embed multi-graph information obtained based on physical distance proximity and functional connectivity of multi-channel EEG signals into the time-domain features to capture rich spatial topological dependencies via multi-graph convolution operation. We extensively evaluated the proposed method on three benchmark EEG datasets commonly used for motor imagery/execution (MI/ME) classification and obtained accuracies of 79.59% (BCICIV-2a Dataset), 69.77% (OpenBMI Dataset) and 96.34% (High Gamma Dataset), respectively. These results powerfully demonstrate that MSMGE-CNN outperforms several state-of-the-art algorithms. In addition, we further conducted a series of ablation experiments to validate the rationality of our network architecture. Overall, the proposed MSMGE-CNN method dramatically improves the accuracy and robustness of MI/ME-EEG decoding, which can effectively enhance the performance of motor related BCI system.


---
# Physics-inspired machine learning detects ‘unknown unknowns’ in networks: discovering network boundaries from observable dynamics

## 受物理学启发的机器学习检测网络中的 “未知未知数”: 从可观察的动力学中发现网络边界

Link: http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2632-2153/ad9194

Dynamics on networks is often only partially observable in experiment, with many nodes being inaccessible or indeed the existence and properties of a larger unobserved network being unknown. This limits our ability to reconstruct the topology of the network and the strength of the interactions among even the observed nodes. Here, we show how machine learning inspired by physics can be utilized on noisy time series of such partially observed networks to determine which nodes of the observed part of a network form its boundary, i.e. have significant interactions with the unobserved part. This opens a route to reliable network reconstruction. We develop the method for arbitrary network dynamics and topologies and demonstrate it on a broad range of dynamics including non-linear coupled oscillators and chaotic attractors. Beyond these we focus in particular on biochemical reaction networks, where we apply the approach to the dynamics of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) network and show that it works even for substantial noise levels.


---
# Predicting interacting Green's functions with neural networks

## 用神经网络预测相互作用的格林函数

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13644

arXiv:2411.13644v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Strongly correlated materials exhibit complex electronic phenomena that are challenging to capture with traditional theoretical methods, yet understanding these systems is crucial for discovering new quantum materials. Addressing the computational bottlenecks in studying such systems, we present a proof-of-concept machine learning-based approach to accelerate Dynamical Mean Field Theory (DMFT) calculations. Our method predicts interacting Green's functions on arbitrary two-dimensional lattices using a two-step ML framework. First, an autoencoder-based network learns and generates physically plausible band structures of materials, providing diverse training data. Next, a dense neural network predicts interacting Green's functions of these physically-possible band structures, expressed in the basis of Legendre polynomials. We demonstrate that this architecture can serve as a substitute for the computationally demanding quantum impurity solver in DMFT, significantly reducing computational cost while maintaining accuracy. This approach offers a scalable pathway to accelerate simulations of strongly correlated systems and lays the groundwork for future extensions to multi-band systems.


---
# Graph neural network framework for energy mapping of hybrid monte-carlo molecular dynamics simulations of Medium Entropy Alloys

## 中熵合金混合蒙特卡洛分子动力学模拟能量映射的图神经网络框架

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13670

arXiv:2411.13670v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Machine learning (ML) methods have drawn significant interest in material design and discovery. Graph neural networks (GNNs), in particular, have demonstrated strong potential for predicting material properties. The present study proposes a graph-based representation for modeling medium-entropy alloys (MEAs). Hybrid Monte-Carlo molecular dynamics (MC/MD) simulations are employed to achieve thermally stable structures across various annealing temperatures in an MEA. These simulations generate dump files and potential energy labels, which are used to construct graph representations of the atomic configurations. Edges are created between each atom and its 12 nearest neighbors without incorporating explicit edge features. These graphs then serve as input for a Graph Convolutional Neural Network (GCNN) based ML model to predict the system's potential energy. The GCNN architecture effectively captures the local environment and chemical ordering within the MEA structure. The GCNN-based ML model demonstrates strong performance in predicting potential energy at different steps, showing satisfactory results on both the training data and unseen configurations. Our approach presents a graph-based modeling framework for MEAs and high-entropy alloys (HEAs), which effectively captures the local chemical order (LCO) within the alloy structure. This allows us to predict key material properties influenced by LCO in both MEAs and HEAs, providing deeper insights into how atomic-scale arrangements affect the properties of these alloys.


---
# Accelerating active learning materials discovery with FAIR data and workflows: a case study for alloy melting temperatures

## 通过公平的数据和工作流程加速主动学习材料发现: 合金熔化温度的案例研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13689

arXiv:2411.13689v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Active learning (AL) is a powerful sequential optimization approach that has shown great promise in the discovery of new materials. However, a major challenge remains the acquisition of the initial data and the development of workflows to generate new data at each iteration. In this study, we demonstrate a significant speedup in an optimization task by reusing a published simulation workflow available for online simulations and its associated data repository, where the results of each workflow run are automatically stored. Both the workflow and its data follow FAIR (findable, accessible, interoperable, and reusable) principles using nanoHUB's infrastructure. The workflow employs molecular dynamics to calculate the melting temperature of multi-principal component alloys. We leveraged all prior data not only to develop an accurate machine learning model to start the sequential optimization but also to optimize the simulation parameters and accelerate convergence. Prior work showed that finding the alloy composition with the highest melting temperature required testing 15 alloy compositions, and establishing the melting temperature for each composition took, on average, 4 simulations. By developing a workflow that utilizes the FAIR data in the nanoHUB database, we reduced the number of simulations per composition to one and found the alloy with the lowest melting temperature testing only three compositions. This second optimization, therefore, shows a speedup of 10x as compared to models that do not access the FAIR databases.


---
# Assessing data-driven predictions of band gap and electrical conductivity for transparent conducting materials

## 评估透明导电材料的带隙和电导率的数据驱动预测

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14034

arXiv:2411.14034v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Machine Learning (ML) has offered innovative perspectives for accelerating the discovery of new functional materials, leveraging the increasing availability of material databases. Despite the promising advances, data-driven methods face constraints imposed by the quantity and quality of available data. Moreover, ML is often employed in tandem with simulated datasets originating from density functional theory (DFT), and assessed through in-sample evaluation schemes. This scenario raises questions about the practical utility of ML in uncovering new and significant material classes for industrial applications. Here, we propose a data-driven framework aimed at accelerating the discovery of new transparent conducting materials (TCMs), an important category of semiconductors with a wide range of applications. To mitigate the shortage of available data, we create and validate unique experimental databases, comprising several examples of existing TCMs. We assess state-of-the-art (SOTA) ML models for property prediction from the stoichiometry alone. We propose a bespoke evaluation scheme to provide empirical evidence on the ability of ML to uncover new, previously unseen materials of interest. We test our approach on a list of 55 compositions containing typical elements of known TCMs. Although our study indicates that ML tends to identify new TCMs compositionally similar to those in the training data, we empirically demonstrate that it can highlight material candidates that may have been previously overlooked, offering a systematic approach to identify materials that are likely to display TCMs characteristics.


---
# Model-free learning of probability flows: Elucidating the nonequilibrium dynamics of flocking

## 概率流的无模型学习: 阐明植绒的非平衡动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14317

arXiv:2411.14317v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Active systems comprise a class of nonequilibrium dynamics in which individual components autonomously dissipate energy. Efforts towards understanding the role played by activity have centered on computation of the entropy production rate (EPR), which quantifies the breakdown of time reversal symmetry. A fundamental difficulty in this program is that high dimensionality of the phase space renders traditional computational techniques infeasible for estimating the EPR. Here, we overcome this challenge with a novel deep learning approach that estimates probability currents directly from stochastic system trajectories. We derive a new physical connection between the probability current and two local definitions of the EPR for inertial systems, which we apply to characterize the departure from equilibrium in a canonical model of flocking. Our results highlight that entropy is produced and consumed on the spatial interface of a flock as the interplay between alignment and fluctuation dynamically creates and annihilates order. By enabling the direct visualization of when and where a given system is out of equilibrium, we anticipate that our methodology will advance the understanding of a broad class of complex nonequilibrium dynamics.


---
# Addressing the Readout Problem in Quantum Differential Equation Algorithms with Quantum Scientific Machine Learning

## 用量子科学机器学习解决量子微分方程算法中的读出问题

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14259

arXiv:2411.14259v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Quantum differential equation solvers aim to prepare solutions as $n$-qubit quantum states over a fine grid of $O(2^n)$ points, surpassing the linear scaling of classical solvers. However, unlike classically stored vectors of solutions, the readout of exact quantum states poses a bottleneck due to the complexity of tomography. Here, we show that the readout problem can be addressed with quantum learning tools where we focus on distilling the relevant features. Treating outputs of quantum differential equation solvers as quantum data, we demonstrate that low-dimensional output can be extracted using a measurement operator adapted to detect relevant features. We apply this quantum scientific machine learning approach to classify solutions for shock wave detection and turbulence modeling in scenarios where data samples come directly from quantum differential equation solvers. We show that the basis chosen for performing analysis greatly impacts classification accuracy. Our work opens up the area of research where quantum machine learning for quantum datasets is inherently required.


---
# Phase transitions of correlated systems from graph neural networks with quantum embedding techniques

## 来自具有量子嵌入技术的图神经网络的相关系统的相变

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.08782

arXiv:2404.08782v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Correlated systems represent a class of materials that are difficult to describe through traditional electronic structure methods. The computational demand to simulate the structural dynamics of such systems, with correlation effects considered, is substantial. Here, we investigate the structural dynamics of $f$- and $d$-electron correlated systems by integrating quantum embedding techniques with interatomic potentials derived from graph neural networks. For Cerium, a prototypical correlated $f$-electron system, we use Density Functional Theory with the Gutzwiller approximation to generate training data due to efficiency with which correlations effects are included for large multi-orbital systems. For Nickel Oxide, a prototypical correlated $d$-electron system, advancements in computational capabilities now permit the use of full Dynamical Mean Field Theory to obtain energies and forces. We train neural networks on this data to create a model of the potential energy surface, enabling rapid and effective exploration of structural dynamics. Utilizing these potentials, we delineate transition pathways between the $\alpha$, $\alpha'$, and $\alpha''$ phases of Cerium and predict the melting curve of Nickel Oxide. Our results demonstrate the potential of machine learning potentials to accelerate the study of strongly correlated systems, offering a scalable approach to explore and understand the complex physics governing these materials.


---
# Data-driven discovery of self-similarity using neural networks

## 使用神经网络进行数据驱动的自相似性发现

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.03896

arXiv:2406.03896v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Finding self-similarity is a key step for understanding the governing law behind complex physical phenomena. Traditional methods for identifying self-similarity often rely on specific models, which can introduce significant bias. In this paper, we present a novel neural network-based approach that discovers self-similarity directly from observed data, without presupposing any models. The presence of self-similar solutions in a physical problem signals that the governing law contains a function whose arguments are given by power-law monomials of physical parameters, which are characterized by power-law exponents. The basic idea is to enforce such particular forms structurally in a neural network in a parametrized way. We train the neural network model using the observed data, and when the training is successful, we can extract the power exponents that characterize scale-transformation symmetries of the physical problem. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method with both synthetic and experimental data, validating its potential as a robust, model-independent tool for exploring self-similarity in complex systems.


---
# Time series forecasting of multiphase microstructure evolution using deep learning

## 基于深度学习的多相微结构演化时间序列预测

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.13111

arXiv:2408.13111v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Microstructure evolution, which plays a critical role in determining materials properties, is commonly simulated by the high-fidelity but computationally expensive phase-field method. To address this, we approximate microstructure evolution as a time series forecasting problem within the domain of deep learning. Our approach involves implementing a cost-effective surrogate model that accurately predicts the spatiotemporal evolution of microstructures, taking an example of spinodal decomposition in binary and ternary mixtures. Our surrogate model combines a convolutional autoencoder to reduce the dimensional representation of these microstructures with convolutional recurrent neural networks to forecast their temporal evolution. We use different variants of recurrent neural networks to compare their efficacy in developing surrogate models for phase-field predictions. On average, our deep learning framework demonstrates excellent accuracy and speedup relative to the "ground truth" phase-field simulations. We use quantitative measures to demonstrate how surrogate model predictions can effectively replace the phase-field timesteps without compromising accuracy in predicting the long-term evolution trajectory. Additionally, by emulating a transfer learning approach, our framework performs satisfactorily in predicting new microstructures resulting from alloy composition and physics unknown to the model. Therefore, our approach offers a useful data-driven alternative and accelerator to the materials microstructure simulation workflow.


---
# Neural density functional theory of liquid-gas phase coexistence

## 液-气相共存的神经密度泛函理论

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.15835

arXiv:2408.15835v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We use supervised machine learning together with the concepts of classical density functional theory to investigate the effects of interparticle attraction on the pair structure, thermodynamics, bulk liquid-gas coexistence, and associated interfacial phenomena in many-body systems. Local learning of the one-body direct correlation functional is based on Monte Carlo simulations of inhomogeneous systems with randomized thermodynamic conditions, randomized planar shapes of the external potential, and randomized box sizes. Focusing on the prototypical Lennard-Jones system, we test predictions of the resulting neural attractive density functional across a broad spectrum of physical behavior associated with liquid-gas phase coexistence in bulk and at interfaces. We analyse the bulk radial distribution function $g(r)$ obtained from automatic differentiation and the Ornstein-Zernike route and determine i) the Fisher-Widom line, i.e. the crossover of the asymptotic (large distance) decay of $g(r)$ from monotonic to oscillatory, ii) the (Widom) line of maximal correlation length, iii) the line of maximal isothermal compressibility and iv) the spinodal by calculating the poles of the structure factor in the complex plane. The bulk binodal and the density profile of the free liquid-gas interface are obtained from density functional minimization and the corresponding surface tension from functional line integration. We also show that the neural functional describes accurately the phenomena of drying at a hard wall and of capillary evaporation for a liquid confined in a slit pore. Our neural framework yields results that improve significantly upon standard mean-field treatments of interparticle attraction. Comparison with independent simulation results demonstrates a consistent picture of phase separation even when restricting the training to supercritical states only.


---
# Directly observing replica symmetry breaking in a vector quantum-optical spin glass

## 直接观察矢量量子光学自旋玻璃中的复制品对称性破坏

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04216

arXiv:2311.04216v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Spin glasses are quintessential examples of complex matter. Although much about their order remains uncertain, abstract models of them inform, e.g., the classification of combinatorial optimization problems, the magnetic ordering in metals with impurities, and artificial intelligence -- where they form a mathematical basis for neural network computing and brain modeling. We demonstrate the ability of an active quantum gas microscope to realize a spin glass of a novel driven-dissipative and vector form. By microscopically visualizing its glassy spin states, the technique allows us to directly measure replica symmetry breaking and the resulting ultrametric hierarchical structure. Ultrametricity is known to be emergent in models of evolution, protein folding, climate change, and infinite-range equilibrium spin glasses; this work shows it to be directly observable in a physically realized system.


---
# Asymptotic generalization error of a single-layer graph convolutional network

## 单层图卷积网络的渐近泛化误差

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03818

arXiv:2402.03818v3 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: While graph convolutional networks show great practical promises, the theoretical understanding of their generalization properties as a function of the number of samples is still in its infancy compared to the more broadly studied case of supervised fully connected neural networks. In this article, we predict the performances of a single-layer graph convolutional network (GCN) trained on data produced by attributed stochastic block models (SBMs) in the high-dimensional limit. Previously, only ridge regression on contextual-SBM (CSBM) has been considered in Shi et al. 2022; we generalize the analysis to arbitrary convex loss and regularization for the CSBM and add the analysis for another data model, the neural-prior SBM. We also study the high signal-to-noise ratio limit, detail the convergence rates of the GCN and show that, while consistent, it does not reach the Bayes-optimal rate for any of the considered cases.


---
# Do deep neural networks behave like structural glasses?

## 深度神经网络的行为像结构玻璃吗？

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.13098

arXiv:2405.13098v3 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) share important similarities with structural glasses. Both have many degrees of freedom, and their dynamics are governed by a high-dimensional, non-convex landscape representing either the loss or energy, respectively. Furthermore, both experience gradient descent dynamics subject to noise. In this work we investigate, by performing quantitative measurements on realistic networks trained on the MNIST and CIFAR-10 datasets, the extent to which this qualitative similarity gives rise to glass-like dynamics in neural networks. We demonstrate the existence of a Topology Trivialisation Transition as well as the previously studied under-to-overparameterised transition analogous to jamming. By training DNNs with overdamped Langevin dynamics in the resulting disordered phases, we do not observe diverging relaxation times at non-zero temperature, nor do we observe any caging effects, in contrast to glass phenomenology. However, the weight overlap function follows a power law in time, with exponent $\approx -0.5$, in agreement with the Mode-Coupling Theory of structural glasses. In addition, the DNN dynamics obey a form of time-temperature superposition. Finally, dynamic heterogeneity and ageing are observed at low temperatures. These results highlight important and surprising points of both difference and agreement between the behaviour of DNNs and structural glasses.


---
# End-to-End Multi-Track Reconstruction using Graph Neural Networks at Belle II

## 在Belle II上使用图神经网络进行端到端多轨道重建

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13596

arXiv:2411.13596v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We present the study of an end-to-end multi-track reconstruction algorithm for the central drift chamber of the Belle II experiment at the SuperKEKB collider using Graph Neural Networks for an unknown number of particles. The algorithm uses detector hits as inputs without pre-filtering to simultaneously predict the number of track candidates in an event and and their kinematic properties. In a second step, we cluster detector hits for each track candidate to pass to a track fitting algorithm. Using a realistic full detector simulation including beam-induced backgrounds and detector noise taken from actual collision data, we find significant improvements in track finding efficiencies for tracks in a variety of different event topologies compared to the existing baseline algorithm used in Belle II. For events with a hypothetical long-lived massive particle with a mass in the GeV-range decaying uniformly along its flight direction into two charged particles, the GNN achieves a combined track finding and fitting efficiency of 85.4% with a fake rate of 2.5%, compared to 52.2% and 4.1% for the baseline algorithm. This is the first end-to-end multi-track machine learning algorithm for a drift chamber detector that has been utilized in a realistic particle physics environment.


---
# Using AI Large Language Models for Grading in Education: A Hands-On Test for Physics

## 使用AI大型语言模型进行教育评分: 物理实践测试一下

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13685

arXiv:2411.13685v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Grading assessments is time-consuming and prone to human bias. Students may experience delays in receiving feedback that may not be tailored to their expectations or needs. Harnessing AI in education can be effective for grading undergraduate physics problems, enhancing the efficiency of undergraduate-level physics learning and teaching, and helping students understand concepts with the help of a constantly available tutor. This report devises a simple empirical procedure to investigate and quantify how well large language model (LLM) based AI chatbots can grade solutions to undergraduate physics problems in Classical Mechanics, Electromagnetic Theory and Quantum Mechanics, comparing humans against AI grading. The following LLMs were tested: Gemini 1.5 Pro, GPT-4, GPT-4o and Claude 3.5 Sonnet. The results show AI grading is prone to mathematical errors and hallucinations, which render it less effective than human grading, but when given a mark scheme, there is substantial improvement in grading quality, which becomes closer to the level of human performance - promising for future AI implementation. Evidence indicates that the grading ability of LLM is correlated with its problem-solving ability. Through unsupervised clustering, it is shown that Classical Mechanics problems may be graded differently from other topics. The method developed can be applied to investigate AI grading performance in other STEM fields.


---
# FLRNet: A Deep Learning Method for Regressive Reconstruction of Flow Field From Limited Sensor Measurements

## FLRNet: 一种基于有限传感器测量的流场回归重建的深度学习方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13815

arXiv:2411.13815v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Many applications in computational and experimental fluid mechanics require effective methods for reconstructing the flow fields from limited sensor data. However, this task remains a significant challenge because the measurement operator, which provides the punctual sensor measurement for a given state of the flow field, is often ill-conditioned and non-invertible. This issue impedes the feasibility of identifying the forward map, theoretically the inverse of the measurement operator, for field reconstruction purposes. While data-driven methods are available, their generalizability across different flow conditions (\textit{e.g.,} different Reynold numbers) remains questioned. Moreover, they frequently face the problem of spectral bias, which leads to smooth and blurry reconstructed fields, thereby decreasing the accuracy of reconstruction. We introduce FLRNet, a deep learning method for flow field reconstruction from sparse sensor measurements. FLRNet employs an variational autoencoder with Fourier feature layers and incorporates an extra perceptual loss term during training to learn a rich, low-dimensional latent representation of the flow field. The learned latent representation is then correlated to the sensor measurement using a fully connected (dense) network. We validated the reconstruction capability and the generalizability of FLRNet under various fluid flow conditions and sensor configurations, including different sensor counts and sensor layouts. Numerical experiments show that in all tested scenarios, FLRNet consistently outperformed other baselines, delivering the most accurate reconstructed flow field and being the most robust to noise.


---
# ALKPU: an active learning method for the DeePMD model with Kalman filter

## ALKPU: 一种基于Kalman滤波的DeePMD模型主动学习方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13850

arXiv:2411.13850v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Neural network force field models such as DeePMD have enabled highly efficient large-scale molecular dynamics simulations with ab initio accuracy. However, building such models heavily depends on the training data obtained by costly electronic structure calculations, thereby it is crucial to carefully select and label the most representative configurations during model training to improve both extrapolation capability and training efficiency. To address this challenge, based on the Kalman filter theory we propose the Kalman Prediction Uncertainty (KPU) to quantify uncertainty of the model's prediction. With KPU we design the Active Learning by KPU (ALKPU) method, which can efficiently select representative configurations that should be labelled during model training. We prove that ALKPU locally leads to the fastest reduction of model's uncertainty, which reveals its rationality as a general active learning method. We test the ALKPU method using various physical system simulations and demonstrate that it can efficiently coverage the system's configuration space. Our work demonstrates the benefits of ALKPU as a novel active learning method, enhancing training efficiency and reducing computational resource demands.


---
# Adjoint-based online learning of two-layer quasi-geostrophic baroclinic turbulence

## 基于伴随的两层准地转斜压湍流的在线学习

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14106

arXiv:2411.14106v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: For reasons of computational constraint, most global ocean circulation models used for Earth System Modeling still rely on parameterizations of sub-grid processes, and limitations in these parameterizations affect the modeled ocean circulation and impact on predictive skill. An increasingly popular approach is to leverage machine learning approaches for parameterizations, regressing for a map between the resolved state and missing feedbacks in a fluid system as a supervised learning task. However, the learning is often performed in an `offline' fashion, without involving the underlying fluid dynamical model during the training stage. Here, we explore the `online' approach that involves the fluid dynamical model during the training stage for the learning of baroclinic turbulence and its parameterization, with reference to ocean eddy parameterization. Two online approaches are considered: a full adjoint-based online approach, related to traditional adjoint optimization approaches that require a `differentiable' dynamical model, and an approximately online approach that approximates the adjoint calculation and does not require a differentiable dynamical model. The online approaches are found to be generally more skillful and numerically stable than offline approaches. Others details relating to online training, such as window size, machine learning model set up and designs of the loss functions are detailed to aid in further explorations of the online training methodology for Earth System Modeling.


---
# Predicting rigidity and connectivity percolation in disordered particulate networks using graph neural networks

## 使用图神经网络预测无序颗粒网络中的刚性和连通性渗流

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14159

arXiv:2411.14159v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Graph neural networks can accurately predict the chemical properties of many molecular systems, but their suitability for large, macromolecular assemblies such as gels is unknown. Here, graph neural networks were trained and optimised for two large-scale classification problems: the rigidity of a molecular network, and the connectivity percolation status which is non-trivial to determine for systems with periodic boundaries. Models trained on lattice systems were found to achieve accuracies >95% for rigidity classification, with slightly lower scores for connectivity percolation due to the inherent class imbalance in the data. Dynamically generated off-lattice networks achieved consistently lower accuracies overall due to the correlated nature of the network geometry that was absent in the lattices. An open source tool is provided allowing usage of the highest-scoring trained models, and directions for future improved tools to surmount the challenges limiting accuracy in certain situations are discussed.


---
# Enhanced receiver function imaging of crustal structures using symmetric autoencoders

## 使用对称自动编码器增强地壳结构的接收器功能成像

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14182

arXiv:2411.14182v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Receiver-function (RF) is a crustal imaging technique that entails deconvolving the radial or transverse component with the vertical component seismogram. Analysis of the variations of RFs along backazimuth and slowness is the key in determining the geometry and anisotropic properties of the crustal layers. Nonetheless, pseudorandom nuisance effects, influenced by the unknown earthquake source signature and seismic noise, are produced by the deconvolution process and obstruct precise comparisons of RFs across different backazimuths. Various methods such as weighted stacking, sparsity-induced transform and supervised denoising neural-network have been developed to reduce the nuisance effects. However, the common assumption of the nuisance effects as random Gaussian proves inadequate. Supervised denoising neural-network struggles to generalize effectively in intricate tectonic environments like subduction zones. In this study, we take an unsupervised approach where a network-based representation of a group of RFs with similar raypaths, enables disentanglement of the coherent crustal effects from the RF-specific nuisance effects. The representation learning task is performed using symmetric autoencoders (SymAE). SymAE effectively generates virtual RFs that capture coherent crustal effects and mitigate nuisance effects. Applied to synthetic RFs with real data-derived nuisances, our method exceeds bin-wise and phase-weighted stacking in quality and accuracy. Using real Cascadia Subduction Zone data, it enhances RFs and aids in interpreting a dual-layer subducting slab. We also provided sanity checks to verify the accuracy of the network-derived virtual RFs. One major advantage of our method is its ability to utilize all available earthquakes, irrespective of their signal quality, thereby enhancing reproducibility and enabling automation in RF analysis.


---
# Learning Pore-scale Multi-phase Flow from Experimental Data with Graph Neural Network

## 用图神经网络从实验数据中学习孔隙尺度多相流

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14192

arXiv:2411.14192v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Understanding the process of multiphase fluid flow through porous media is crucial for many climate change mitigation technologies, including CO$_2$ geological storage, hydrogen storage, and fuel cells. However, current numerical models are often incapable of accurately capturing the complex pore-scale physics observed in experiments. In this study, we address this challenge using a graph neural network-based approach and directly learn pore-scale fluid flow using micro-CT experimental data. We propose a Long-Short-Edge MeshGraphNet (LSE-MGN) that predicts the state of each node in the pore space at each time step. During inference, given an initial state, the model can autoregressively predict the evolution of the multiphase flow process over time. This approach successfully captures the physics from the high-resolution experimental data while maintaining computational efficiency, providing a promising direction for accurate and efficient pore-scale modeling of complex multiphase fluid flow dynamics.


---
# Uncertainty Quantification in Working Memory via Moment Neural Networks

## 基于矩神经网络的工作记忆不确定性量化

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14196

arXiv:2411.14196v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Humans possess a finely tuned sense of uncertainty that helps anticipate potential errors, vital for adaptive behavior and survival. However, the underlying neural mechanisms remain unclear. This study applies moment neural networks (MNNs) to explore the neural mechanism of uncertainty quantification in working memory (WM). The MNN captures nonlinear coupling of the first two moments in spiking neural networks (SNNs), identifying firing covariance as a key indicator of uncertainty in encoded information. Trained on a WM task, the model demonstrates coding precision and uncertainty quantification comparable to human performance. Analysis reveals a link between the probabilistic and sampling-based coding for uncertainty representation. Transferring the MNN's weights to an SNN replicates these results. Furthermore, the study provides testable predictions demonstrating how noise and heterogeneity enhance WM performance, highlighting their beneficial role rather than being mere biological byproducts. These findings offer insights into how the brain effectively manages uncertainty with exceptional accuracy.


---
# CoNFiLD-inlet: Synthetic Turbulence Inflow Using Generative Latent Diffusion Models with Neural Fields

## CoNFiLD-入口: 使用具有神经场的生成潜在扩散模型的合成湍流流入

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14378

arXiv:2411.14378v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Eddy-resolving turbulence simulations require stochastic inflow conditions that accurately replicate the complex, multi-scale structures of turbulence. Traditional recycling-based methods rely on computationally expensive precursor simulations, while existing synthetic inflow generators often fail to reproduce realistic coherent structures of turbulence. Recent advances in deep learning (DL) have opened new possibilities for inflow turbulence generation, yet many DL-based methods rely on deterministic, autoregressive frameworks prone to error accumulation, resulting in poor robustness for long-term predictions. In this work, we present CoNFiLD-inlet, a novel DL-based inflow turbulence generator that integrates diffusion models with a conditional neural field (CNF)-encoded latent space to produce realistic, stochastic inflow turbulence. By parameterizing inflow conditions using Reynolds numbers, CoNFiLD-inlet generalizes effectively across a wide range of Reynolds numbers ($Re_\tau$ between $10^3$ and $10^4$) without requiring retraining or parameter tuning. Comprehensive validation through a priori and a posteriori tests in Direct Numerical Simulation (DNS) and Wall-Modeled Large Eddy Simulation (WMLES) demonstrates its high fidelity, robustness, and scalability, positioning it as an efficient and versatile solution for inflow turbulence synthesis.


---
# Exploring Methods for Integrating and Augmenting Multimodal Data to Improve Prognostic Accuracy in Imbalanced Datasets for Intraoperative Aneurysm Occlusion

## 探索整合和增强多模式数据以提高术中动脉瘤闭塞不平衡数据集的预后准确性的方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14407

arXiv:2411.14407v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: This study evaluates a multimodal machine learning framework for predicting treatment outcomes in intracranial aneurysms (IAs). Combining angiographic parametric imaging (API), patient biomarkers, and disease morphology, the framework aims to enhance prognostic accuracy. Data from 340 patients were analyzed, with separate deep neural networks processing quantitative and categorical data. These networks' pre decision layers were concatenated and inputted into a final predictive network. Various data augmentation strategies, including Synthetic Minority Oversampling Technique for Nominal and Continuous data (SMOTE NC), addressed dataset imbalances. Performance metrics, evaluated through Monte Carlo cross validation, showed significant improvements with augmentation, particularly in intermediate fusion models. This study validates the framework's efficacy in accurately predicting IA treatment outcomes, demonstrating that data augmentation techniques can substantially enhance model performance.


---
# Engineering spectro-temporal light states with physics-trained deep learning

## 通过物理训练的深度学习工程光谱时间光状态

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14410

arXiv:2411.14410v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Frequency synthesis and spectro-temporal control of optical wave packets are central to ultrafast science, with supercontinuum (SC) generation standing as one remarkable example. Through passive manipulation, femtosecond (fs) pulses from nJ-level lasers can be transformed into octave-spanning spectra, supporting few-cycle pulse outputs when coupled with external pulse compressors. While strategies such as machine learning have been applied to control the SC's central wavelength and bandwidth, their success has been limited by the nonlinearities and strong sensitivity to measurement noise. Here, we propose and demonstrate how a physics-trained convolutional neural network (P-CNN) can circumvent such challenges, showing few-fold speedups over the direct approaches. We highlight three key advancements enabled by the P-CNN approach: (i) on-demand control over spectral features of SC, (ii) direct generation of sub-3-cycle pulses from the highly nonlinear fiber, and (iii) the production of high-order solitons, capturing distinct "breather" dynamics in both spectral and temporal domains. This approach heralds a new era of arbitrary spectro-temporal state engineering, with transformative implications for ultrafast and quantum science.


---
# Exploring applications of topological data analysis in stock index movement prediction

## 拓扑数据分析在股指走势预测中的应用探索

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13881

arXiv:2411.13881v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Topological Data Analysis (TDA) has recently gained significant attention in the field of financial prediction. However, the choice of point cloud construction methods, topological feature representations, and classification models has a substantial impact on prediction results. This paper addresses the classification problem of stock index movement. First, we construct point clouds for stock indices using three different methods. Next, we apply TDA to extract topological structures from the point clouds. Four distinct topological features are computed to represent the patterns in the data, and 15 combinations of these features are enumerated and input into six different machine learning models. We evaluate the predictive performance of various TDA configurations by conducting index movement classification tasks on datasets such as CSI, DAX, HSI and FTSE providing insights into the efficiency of different TDA setups.


---
# Addressing the Readout Problem in Quantum Differential Equation Algorithms with Quantum Scientific Machine Learning

## 用量子科学机器学习解决量子微分方程算法中的读出问题

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14259

arXiv:2411.14259v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Quantum differential equation solvers aim to prepare solutions as $n$-qubit quantum states over a fine grid of $O(2^n)$ points, surpassing the linear scaling of classical solvers. However, unlike classically stored vectors of solutions, the readout of exact quantum states poses a bottleneck due to the complexity of tomography. Here, we show that the readout problem can be addressed with quantum learning tools where we focus on distilling the relevant features. Treating outputs of quantum differential equation solvers as quantum data, we demonstrate that low-dimensional output can be extracted using a measurement operator adapted to detect relevant features. We apply this quantum scientific machine learning approach to classify solutions for shock wave detection and turbulence modeling in scenarios where data samples come directly from quantum differential equation solvers. We show that the basis chosen for performing analysis greatly impacts classification accuracy. Our work opens up the area of research where quantum machine learning for quantum datasets is inherently required.


---
# Do deep neural networks behave like structural glasses?

## 深度神经网络的行为像结构玻璃吗？

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.13098

arXiv:2405.13098v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) share important similarities with structural glasses. Both have many degrees of freedom, and their dynamics are governed by a high-dimensional, non-convex landscape representing either the loss or energy, respectively. Furthermore, both experience gradient descent dynamics subject to noise. In this work we investigate, by performing quantitative measurements on realistic networks trained on the MNIST and CIFAR-10 datasets, the extent to which this qualitative similarity gives rise to glass-like dynamics in neural networks. We demonstrate the existence of a Topology Trivialisation Transition as well as the previously studied under-to-overparameterised transition analogous to jamming. By training DNNs with overdamped Langevin dynamics in the resulting disordered phases, we do not observe diverging relaxation times at non-zero temperature, nor do we observe any caging effects, in contrast to glass phenomenology. However, the weight overlap function follows a power law in time, with exponent $\approx -0.5$, in agreement with the Mode-Coupling Theory of structural glasses. In addition, the DNN dynamics obey a form of time-temperature superposition. Finally, dynamic heterogeneity and ageing are observed at low temperatures. These results highlight important and surprising points of both difference and agreement between the behaviour of DNNs and structural glasses.


---
# Integrating Physics of the Problem into Data-Driven Methods to Enhance Elastic Full-Waveform Inversion with Uncertainty Quantification

## 将问题的物理学集成到数据驱动方法中，以增强不确定性量化的弹性全波形反演

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.05153

arXiv:2406.05153v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Full-Waveform Inversion (FWI) is a nonlinear iterative seismic imaging technique that, by reducing the misfit between recorded and predicted seismic waveforms, can produce detailed estimates of subsurface geophysical properties. Nevertheless, the strong nonlinearity of FWI can trap the optimization in local minima. This issue arises due to factors such as improper initial values, the absence of low frequencies in the measurements, noise, and other related considerations. To address this challenge and with the advent of advanced machine-learning techniques, data-driven methods, such as deep learning, have attracted significantly increasing attention in the geophysical community. Furthermore, the elastic wave equation should be included in FWI to represent elastic effects accurately. The intersection of data-driven techniques and elastic scattering theories presents opportunities and challenges. In this paper, by using the knowledge of elastic scattering (physics of the problem) and integrating it with machine learning techniques, we propose methods for the solution of time-harmonic FWI to enhance accuracy compared to pure data-driven and physics-based approaches. Moreover, to address uncertainty quantification, by modifying the structure of the Variational Autoencoder, we introduce a probabilistic deep learning method based on the physics of the problem that enables us to explore the uncertainties of the solution. According to the limited availability of datasets in this field and to assess the performance and accuracy of the proposed methods, we create a comprehensive dataset close to reality and conduct a comparative analysis of the presented approaches to it.


---
# Variational MineGAN: A Data-efficient Knowledge Transfer Architecture for Generative AI-assisted Design of Nanophotonic Structures

## 变分MineGAN: 用于生成AI辅助纳米光子结构设计的数据高效知识转移体系结构

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.17889

arXiv:2410.17889v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Leveraging the power of deep learning to design nanophotonic devices has been an area of active research in recent times, with Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) being a popular choice alongside autoencoder-based methods. However, both approaches typically require large datasets and significant computational resources, which can outweigh the advantages of saving time and effort. While GANs trained on smaller datasets can experience challenges such as unstable training and mode collapse, fine-tuning pre-trained GANs on these limited datasets often introduces additional problems, such as overfitting and lack of flexibility. This limits the model's ability to generalize, reducing its overall effectiveness. In this study, we present Variational MineGAN, an enhanced version of MineGAN that is less susceptible to overfitting while leveraging pre-trained GANs. This approach ensures a more robust sampling process, improving the model's generalization ability while transferring knowledge to domains with limited data. Experimental results demonstrate a lower Frechet Inception Distance (FID) score of 52.14, along with an increased Inception Score (IS) of 3.59 compared to prior methods. This implies better quality design images, which allow for the exploration of highly efficient designs with desired spectral responses and improved learning of nonlinear relationships between the latent space and the corresponding designs.


---
# Leveraging Convolutional Neural Networks for 3D Quantitative Angiography Reconstructions from Sparse Cone Beam CT Projections Utilizing CFD Data

## 利用卷积神经网络从稀疏锥束CT投影利用CFD数据进行3D定量血管造影重建

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.09632

arXiv:2411.09632v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: This study leverages convolutional neural networks to enhance the temporal resolution of 3D angiography in intracranial aneurysms focusing on the reconstruction of volumetric contrast data from sparse and limited projections. Three patient-specific IA geometries were segmented and converted into stereolithography files to facilitate computational fluid dynamics simulations. These simulations first modeled blood flow under steady conditions with varying inlet velocities: 0.25 m/s, 0.35 m/s, and 0.45 m/s. Subsequently, 3D angiograms were simulated by labeling inlet particles to represent contrast bolus injections over durations of 0.5s, 1.0s, 1.5s, and 2.0s. The angiographic simulations were then used within a simulated cone beam C arm CT system to generate in-silico rotational DSAs, capturing projections every 10 ms over a 220-degree arc at 27 frames per second. From these simulations, both fully sampled (108 projections) and truncated projection datasets were generated the latter using a maximum of 49 projections. High fidelity volumetric images were reconstructed using a Parker weighted Feldkamp Davis Kress algorithm. A modified U Net CNN was subsequently trained on these datasets to reconstruct 3D angiographic volumes from the truncated projections. The network incorporated multiple convolutional layers with ReLU activations and Max pooling, complemented by upsampling and concatenation to preserve spatial detail. Model performance was evaluated using mean squared error (MSE). Evaluating our U net model across the test set yielded a MSE of 0.0001, indicating good agreement with ground truth reconstructions and demonstrating acceptable capabilities in capturing relevant transient angiographic features. This study confirms the feasibility of using CNNs for reconstructing 3D angiographic images from truncated projections.


---
# Integration of Active Learning and MCMC Sampling for Efficient Bayesian Calibration of Mechanical Properties

## 主动学习和MCMC采样的集成，用于机械性能的有效贝叶斯校准

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13361

arXiv:2411.13361v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Recent advancements in Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) sampling and surrogate modelling have significantly enhanced the feasibility of Bayesian analysis across engineering fields. However, the selection and integration of surrogate models and cutting-edge MCMC algorithms, often depend on ad-hoc decisions. A systematic assessment of their combined influence on analytical accuracy and efficiency is notably lacking. The present work offers a comprehensive comparative study, employing a scalable case study in computational mechanics focused on the inference of spatially varying material parameters, that sheds light on the impact of methodological choices for surrogate modelling and sampling. We show that a priori training of the surrogate model introduces large errors in the posterior estimation even in low to moderate dimensions. We introduce a simple active learning strategy based on the path of the MCMC algorithm that is superior to all a priori trained models, and determine its training data requirements. We demonstrate that the choice of the MCMC algorithm has only a small influence on the amount of training data but no significant influence on the accuracy of the resulting surrogate model. Further, we show that the accuracy of the posterior estimation largely depends on the surrogate model, but not even a tailored surrogate guarantees convergence of the MCMC.Finally, we identify the forward model as the bottleneck in the inference process, not the MCMC algorithm. While related works focus on employing advanced MCMC algorithms, we demonstrate that the training data requirements render the surrogate modelling approach infeasible before the benefits of these gradient-based MCMC algorithms on cheap models can be reaped.


---
# Hierarchical Information-sharing Convolutional Neural Network for the Prediction of Arctic Sea Ice Concentration and Velocity

## 分层信息共享卷积神经网络预测北极海冰浓度和速度

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00167

arXiv:2311.00167v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Forecasting sea ice concentration (SIC) and sea ice velocity (SIV) in the Arctic Ocean is of great significance as the Arctic environment has been changed by the recent warming climate. Given that physical sea ice models require high computational costs with complex parameterization, deep learning techniques can effectively replace the physical model and improve the performance of sea ice prediction. This study proposes a novel multi-task fully conventional network architecture named hierarchical information-sharing U-net (HIS-Unet) to predict daily SIC and SIV. Instead of learning SIC and SIV separately at each branch, we allow the SIC and SIV layers to share their information and assist each other's prediction through the weighting attention modules (WAMs). Consequently, our HIS-Unet outperforms other statistical approaches, sea ice physical models, and neural networks without such information-sharing units. The improvement of HIS-Unet is more significant to when and where SIC changes seasonally, which implies that the information sharing between SIC and SIV through WAMs helps learn the dynamic changes of SIC and SIV. The weight values of the WAMs imply that SIC information plays a more critical role in SIV prediction, compared to that of SIV information in SIC prediction, and information sharing is more active in marginal ice zones (e.g., East Greenland and Hudson/Baffin Bays) than in the central Arctic.


---
# Directly observing replica symmetry breaking in a vector quantum-optical spin glass

## 直接观察矢量量子光学自旋玻璃中的复制品对称性破坏

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04216

arXiv:2311.04216v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Spin glasses are quintessential examples of complex matter. Although much about their order remains uncertain, abstract models of them inform, e.g., the classification of combinatorial optimization problems, the magnetic ordering in metals with impurities, and artificial intelligence -- where they form a mathematical basis for neural network computing and brain modeling. We demonstrate the ability of an active quantum gas microscope to realize a spin glass of a novel driven-dissipative and vector form. By microscopically visualizing its glassy spin states, the technique allows us to directly measure replica symmetry breaking and the resulting ultrametric hierarchical structure. Ultrametricity is known to be emergent in models of evolution, protein folding, climate change, and infinite-range equilibrium spin glasses; this work shows it to be directly observable in a physically realized system.


---
# DiscoTEX 1.0: Discontinuous collocation and implicit-turned-explicit (IMTEX) integration symplectic, symmetric numerical algorithms with higher order jumps for differential equations I: numerical black hole perturbation theory applications

## DiscoTEX 1.0: 不连续搭配和隐式转显式 (IMTEX) 积分辛，对称数值算法，具有高阶跳跃的微分方程I: 数值黑洞扰动理论应用

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.08758

arXiv:2401.08758v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Dirac $\delta-$ distributionally sourced differential equations emerge in many dynamical physical systems from machine learning, finance, neuroscience, and seismology to black hole perturbation theory. These systems lack exact analytical solutions and are thus best tackled numerically. We describe a generic numerical algorithm which constructs discontinuous spatial and temporal discretisations by operating on discontinuous Lagrange and Hermite interpolation formulae, respectively. By solving the distributionally sourced wave equation, possessing analytical solutions, we demonstrate that numerical weak-form solutions can be recovered to high-order accuracy by solving a first-order reduced system of ODEs. The method-of-lines framework is applied to the \texttt{DiscoTEX} algorithm i.e. through \underline{dis}continuous \underline{co}llocation with implicit\underline{-turned-explicit} integration methods which are symmetric and conserve symplectic structure. Furthermore, the main application of the algorithm is proved by calculating the amplitude at any desired location within the numerical grid, including at the position (and at its right and left limit) where the wave- (or wave-like) equation is discontinuous via interpolation using \texttt{DiscoTEX}. This is demonstrated, firstly by solving the wave- (or wave-like) equation and comparing the numerical weak-form solution to the exact solution. We further demonstrate how to reconstruct the gravitational metric perturbations from weak-form numerical solutions of a non-rotating black hole, which do not have known exact analytical solutions, and compare them against state-of-the-art frequency domain results. We conclude by motivating how \texttt{DiscoTEX}, and related numerical algorithms, both open a promising new alternative waveform generation route for modelling highly asymmetric binaries and complement current frequency domain methods.


---
# Phase transitions of correlated systems from graph neural networks with quantum embedding techniques

## 来自具有量子嵌入技术的图神经网络的相关系统的相变

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.08782

arXiv:2404.08782v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Correlated systems represent a class of materials that are difficult to describe through traditional electronic structure methods. The computational demand to simulate the structural dynamics of such systems, with correlation effects considered, is substantial. Here, we investigate the structural dynamics of $f$- and $d$-electron correlated systems by integrating quantum embedding techniques with interatomic potentials derived from graph neural networks. For Cerium, a prototypical correlated $f$-electron system, we use Density Functional Theory with the Gutzwiller approximation to generate training data due to efficiency with which correlations effects are included for large multi-orbital systems. For Nickel Oxide, a prototypical correlated $d$-electron system, advancements in computational capabilities now permit the use of full Dynamical Mean Field Theory to obtain energies and forces. We train neural networks on this data to create a model of the potential energy surface, enabling rapid and effective exploration of structural dynamics. Utilizing these potentials, we delineate transition pathways between the $\alpha$, $\alpha'$, and $\alpha''$ phases of Cerium and predict the melting curve of Nickel Oxide. Our results demonstrate the potential of machine learning potentials to accelerate the study of strongly correlated systems, offering a scalable approach to explore and understand the complex physics governing these materials.


---
# A TVD neural network closure and application to turbulent combustion

## TVD神经网络闭合及其在湍流燃烧中的应用

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.03413

arXiv:2408.03413v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Trained neural networks (NN) have attractive features for closing governing equations. There are many methods that are showing promise, but all can fail in cases when small errors consequentially violate physical reality, such as a solution boundedness condition. A NN formulation is introduced to preclude spurious oscillations that violate solution boundedness or positivity. It is embedded in the discretized equations as a machine learning closure and strictly constrained, inspired by total variation diminishing (TVD) methods for hyperbolic conservation laws. The constraint is exactly enforced during gradient-descent training by rescaling the NN parameters, which maps them onto an explicit feasible set. Demonstrations show that the constrained NN closure model usefully recovers linear and nonlinear hyperbolic phenomena and anti-diffusion while enforcing the non-oscillatory property. Finally, the model is applied to subgrid-scale (SGS) modeling of a turbulent reacting flow, for which it suppresses spurious oscillations in scalar fields that otherwise violate the solution boundedness. It outperforms a simple penalization of oscillations in the loss function.


---
# Learning kinetics from non-ideal reactors by implicitly solved finite volumes and global reaction neural networks

## 通过隐式求解的有限体积和全局反应神经网络从非理想反应器中学习动力学

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-pgqr6?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

The digitalization of chemical research and industry generates large amounts of data, offering new opportunities for developing and parameterizing kinetic models. Leveraging this data requires machine learning techniques capable of autonomously extracting kinetics from reactor datasets. Recently, neural ordinary differential equations (neural ODEs) were coupled with reactor models to learn kinetics from ideal reaction systems, such as plug-flow reactors. However, real reactor set-ups commonly feature non-idealities such as heat- and mass transfer limitations, described by partial differential equations (PDEs) or differential-algebraic equations (DAEs). Discretizing such non-ideal PDE or DAE reactor models by finite volumes yields algebraic balance equations, which are solved by numerical schemes. In this work, we propose to learn kinetics from non-ideal reactor data using these balance equations and implicit neural networks, avoiding expensive backpropagation through the numerical solution by utilizing the implicit function theorem. The approach is demonstrated for the example of a mass transfer limited flat plate reactor for the preferential catalytic oxidation of CO. We show that Global Reaction Neural Networks, embedding thermodynamic and stoichiometric prior knowledge, coupled with a discretized two-phase CSTR cascade reactor model extract intrinsic kinetics from 50 integral reactor experiments. These kinetics generalize to new reactor geometries, where kinetics obtained by neural ODEs fail. Further, the approach is robust, recovering accurate kinetics even when training data is perturbed by 10% Gaussian noise. We expect that combining neural network-based kinetics with non-ideal reactor models will broaden the scope of kinetic model discovery and improve access to accurate kinetic models.


---
# Uncovering Ion Transport Mechanisms in Ionic Liquids Using Data Science

## 使用数据科学揭示离子液体中的离子传输机制

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-ks4j1?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Batteries play a key role in the energy transition but suffer from safety concerns arising from the electrochemical instability of organic electrolytes. Ionic liquids are emerging as promising, non-flammable electrolytes for next-generation batteries. Yet, designing ionic liquids to facilitate redox ion transport has proven challenging, because ionic liquids are concentrated electrolytes where ion-ion interactions cause pronounced deviation from classical electrolyte scaling theories which assume viscosity governs mobility. Machine learning studies show that ionic liquid transport properties are challenging to predict from molecular descriptors, preventing rational design. Here, we pursue a broader data-centric approach to provide insight into ionic liquid design by merging databases of experimental properties and computational molecular features for 218 ionic liquids across 127 publications. We find that ionic liquids are well-described by a modified Arrhenius model that captures structure-driven ion transport in correlated electrolytes, yielding energy barriers of around 20-30 kJ/mol. This exhibits remarkable agreement with the approximately 25 kJ/mol screened ion pair interaction energy derived from surface forces measurements, suggesting links between mechanisms of ion transport and interfacial screening. We also use machine learning models to find that molecular features can predict some properties, such as density, while failing to predict properties that rely on long-range correlations, such as viscous dissipation. Our study reveals that data science tools can be leveraged to reveal non-classical transport scaling relationships and alternative materials descriptors that promise to be transformative for designing ionic liquids and other correlated electrolytes for next-generation batteries. All data and models are shared as open-source code.


---
# Elucidating structures from spectra using multimodal embeddings and discrete optimization

## 使用多模态嵌入和离散优化从光谱中阐明结构

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-f3b18?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Structure elucidation --- determining molecular structures from spectroscopic data -- remains one of chemistry's most fundamental and challenging tasks, essential for advancing fields from drug discovery to materials science. While machine learning approaches have attempted to automate this process, they typically focus on single spectroscopic techniques and lack crucial confidence metrics, limiting their practical utility. Here, we present spec2struct, a framework that synergistically combines multimodal embeddings, contrastive learning, and evolutionary algorithms to mimic how expert chemists approach structure determination. By aligning encoders for diverse spectroscopic techniques with molecular representations, our system can simultaneously interpret multiple types of spectroscopic evidence. This alignment guides genetic algorithms to evolve chemically valid candidates that best match the experimental data. spec2struct not only outperforms existing methods but also provides calibrated and contextualized confidence estimates. We demonstrate its real-world impact by identifying several published structures incorrectly assigned in the literature.  The combination of performance, reliability, and versatility positions spec2struct as a powerful tool for accelerating chemical discovery.


---
# Multi-Fidelity Transfer Learning for Quantum Chemical Data Using A Robust Density Functional Tight Binding Baseline

## 使用鲁棒的密度泛函紧密结合基线对量子化学数据进行多保真度迁移学习

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-9734b?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Machine learning has revolutionized the development of interatomic potentials over the past decade, offering unparalleled computational speed without compromising accuracy. However, the performance of these models is highly dependent on the quality and amount of training data. Consequently, the current scarcity of high-fidelity datasets (i.e. beyond semilocal density functional theory) represents a significant challenge for further improvement. To address this, this study investigates the performance of transfer learning (TL) across multiple fidelities for both molecules and materials. Crucially, we disentangle the effects of multiple fidelities and different configuration/chemical spaces for pre-training and fine-tuning, in order to gain a deeper understanding of TL for chemical applications. This reveals that negative transfer, driven by noise from low-fidelity methods such as a Density Functional Tight Binding (DFTB) baseline, can significantly impact fine-tuned models. Despite this, the multi-fidelity approach demonstrates superior performance compared to single-fidelity learning. Interestingly, it even outperforms TL based on foundation models in some cases, by leveraging an optimal overlap of pre-training and fine-tuning chemical spaces.


---
# Engaging Students in Spectroscopic Analysis of Organic Compounds: A Collaborative Tournament Approach for Third-Year Chemistry Students in Northern France

## 让学生参与有机化合物的光谱分析: 法国北部三年级化学学生的协作锦标赛方法

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-prcbm?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

The ability to elucidate the structure of organic compounds from their nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), infrared (IR), and mass spectrometry (MS) spectra is an essential skill, particularly for those engaged in the fields of synthetic or analytical organic chemistry. Spectral analysis constitutes a fundamental component of the curriculum for all chemistry students, as it requires the development of critical thinking skills. To engage and motivate students in the structure’s elucidation course, a gamified learning activity was designed in the form of a tournament involving third-year chemistry students from three universities in Northern France. In this tournament, the students are divided into teams comprising four to five individuals. They are tasked with elucidating the structures of organic compounds based on their NMR, IR, and MS spectra in the shortest possible time with the fewest possible incorrect answers. The tournament was conducted in two distinct phases, each with a duration of an hour and a half and an hour, respectively. The initial phase is competitive and involves teams of students from the same university, while the subsequent phase is designed to facilitate interaction and comparison between students from different universities, allowing them to discuss and evaluate their respective knowledge and methodology. The students were invited to evaluate the tournament approach through a questionnaire. The students expressed appreciation for the tournament and recommended its repetition in future years, citing its value in advancing their spectroscopy skills. Additionally, the students found the opportunity to interact with students from other universities and engage in discussions about their training programmes and methodologies to be a valuable experience.


---
# An Automatic Recognition of Indian Dish and Allergen Prediction Using DeepLearning

## 使用DeepLearning自动识别印度菜和过敏原预测

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-4961763/latest

The research addresses the issue of image variability in practical settings by introducing a deep learning-based system for allergy prediction and Indian dish recognition. Food plays a big part in supporting a healthy lifestyle, which is becoming more and more popular globally. Recognizing the different types of food and the allergies that are in it is crucial. With the help of convolutional neural networks and visual transformers, the model can predict possible allergies and identify foods with accuracy, which is important for managing diet and raising awareness of allergens. Its uses are extensive in the food service, medical, and nutrition domains, providing workable answers for safer and better-informed nutritional selections in Indian food. Extensive analysis validates the model's effectiveness and potential influence on many sectors. In this study, various CNN architectures, including ResNet50, VGG16, VGG19, and a custom CNN, were employed for Indian Dish Recognition and Allergy Prediction. To enhance model accuracy, techniques such as image augmentation were integrated. While certain models showed promising results, reaching a maximum accuracy of 81%, others did not meet the desired expectations. To improve performance, Vision Transformers (ViTs) were employed, resulting in a remarkable accuracy of 92%.


---
# An Evaluation of Artificial Intelligence Applications in Learning English through the Multi-complementary Approach

## 通过多元互补的方法评估人工智能在英语学习中的应用

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5387274/latest

This study aims to evaluate the applications of artificial intelligence (AI) in learning English. A multi-complementary approach (McA) was adopted as a research design to achieve this. A multi-complementary approach integrates multi-analysis as i) meta-analysis and meta-thematic analysis (pre-complementary) phase; at this stage, in the meta-analysis, the effect of artificial intelligence on learning was found to be 0.063, indicating an average effect size. ii) an experimental design of the pre-and post-test (post-complementary) phase; at this phase, the pre-test assessment results showed non-significant differences while the post-test assessment test results showed a significant improvement in academic achievement in the experimental group using artificial intelligent application compared to control with traditional method of learning. iii) the final phase of the research design is the complementary knowledge phase, where the results from the two previous phases were integrated to evaluate their affinity. At this phase, post-complementary results showed a significant impact of artificial intelligence on the academic performance of students who used artificial intelligence applications for learning English, thereby complementing the pre-complementary findings. In conclusion, the study emphasises the positive impact of artificial intelligence applications on English language learning outcomes. Despite some challenges faced by students, the integration of artificial intelligence applications into teaching-learning environments is important for enhancing students' academic achievements and fostering a more engaging and interactive learning experience. By addressing the challenges and harnessing the potential of artificial intelligence technologies, educators can create more effective and personalised language learning experiences for students.


---
# Effects of NMDAR2B-mediated Hippocampal Neuron Protection on Cognitive Function in Rats with Depression

## NMDAR2B-mediated海马神经元保护对抑郁大鼠认知功能的影响

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5371457/latest

Background To observe the changes in cognitive function of depressive model rats after fluoxetine intervention, and further explore the correlation between fluoxetine's influence on cognitive function in depressive model rats and the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor 2B subunit (NMDAR2B) in the hippocampus, as well as its impact on hippocampal neurons.Methods The depression model was established using Chronic Unpredictable Mild Stress (CUMS) combined with solitary confinement, followed by fluoxetine intervention upon successful establishment. Neurobehavioral assessments were conducted to evaluate the rats' emotions, cognition, and learning abilities. Molecular docking technology was employed to observe the affinity between fluoxetine and the NMDAR2B subunit. Proteomic analysis was performed to detect changes in NMDAR2B protein, and histopathological staining was used to observe pathological alterations in neurons in the rat hippocampus. Finally, statistical analysis of the data was conducted.Results After modeling, the rats exhibited depressive-like behaviors, impaired cognitive learning and memory abilities, significantly reduced expression and concentration of NMDAR2B protein, pathological damage to neurons in the hippocampus, decreased number of Nissl bodies, markedly reduced dendritic spine density, damaged synaptic structures with decreased synaptic vesicles. Following fluoxetine intervention, these conditions showed varying degrees of recovery. Correlation analysis revealed that the cognitive and learning abilities of rats were impaired, accompanied by a significant decrease in dendritic spine density and a decline in the expression of the NMDAR2B protein.Conclusions Fluoxetine may exert neuroprotective effects by regulating the expression of NMDAR2B protein in the hippocampus, thereby improving the cognitive function of depressed rats.


---
# Attention-Driven Frequency-Based Zero-Shot Learning with Phase Augmentation

## 具有相位增强的注意力驱动的基于频率的零触发学习

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5182365/latest

Zero-Shot Learning (ZSL) aims to recognize unseen classes by aligning visual and semantic information. However, existing methods often struggle with noise in the RGB domain, which limits their ability to capture fine-grained semantic attributes, such as a grey bird's tail blending with the ground. This visual ambiguity in the RGB domain negatively impacts model performance. In contrast, the frequency domain can better capture high-frequency signals that are often overlooked in RGB, making areas that are easily confused in RGB more distinguishable.To address this issue, we propose a novel Frequency-based framework that transforms spatial features into the frequency domain, allowing for more robust attribute representation and improved noise suppression. The framework incorporates a Multi-Scale Frequency Fusion Module that integrates multi-scale feature maps with frequency domain attention, and a Phase-based Augmentation Module that enhances key attributes by augmenting phase information. Additionally, we introduce two novel modules: the Masked Residual Aggregation Module for combining global and local features and the Phase High-Frequency Filtering Module for image denoising. The Mean Class Accuracy results of our method on CUB, AWA2 and aPY datasets are 2.8%, 5.0%, and 7.4% higher than other methods, respectively. We establish a new direction in frequency-based zero-shot learning. Source code at \href{https://github.com/Waldeinsamkeit628/AFPA}{https://github.com/Waldeinsamkeit628/AFPA}.


---
# Assessment Of Feeding Intensity Of Tilapia Based On Improved VGG16 And Voice Spectrograms

## 基于改进VGG16和语音频谱图的罗非鱼摄食强度评估

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5392730/latest

In aquaculture, understanding fish appetite is crucial for developing effective feeding strategies. Fish feeding intensity is a direct indicator of their appetite. This study aims to develop a method for assessing fish feeding intensity using acoustic spectrograms and a convolutional neural network. The algorithm categorizes feeding intensity into four levels: strong, medium, weak, and none. By collecting acoustic feeding signals from tilapia in a recirculating water system, these signals were converted into a spectrogram to visualize time-dependent amplitudes across different frequencies. An improved VGG16 model, incorporating a specially designed attention mechanism fusion module, was utilized to accurately assess feeding intensity. The experimental results indicate that the proposed method improves classification accuracy by 1.83% over the original model, achieving 94.37% accuracy, and increases computational speed by 2.77%. The model's performance superiority was further validated by comparisons with other classical network models. This method offers an objective and automated way to detect fish feeding intensity, which can subsequently be applied to improve feed utilization in tilapia farming processes.


---
# Direct Coupling Analysis and the Attention Mechanism

## 直接耦合分析与注意机制

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5393732/latest

Proteins are involved in nearly all cellular functions, encompassing roles in transport, signaling, enzymatic activity, and more. Their functionalities crucially depend on their complex three-dimensional arrangement. For this reason, being able to predict their structure from the amino acid sequence has been and still is a phenomenal computational challenge that the introduction of AlphaFold solved with unprecedented accuracy. However, the inherent complexity of &nbsp;AlphaFold's architectures makes it challenging to understand the rules that ultimately shape the protein's predicted structure. This study investigates a single-layer unsupervised model based on the attention mechanism. More precisely, we explore a Direct Coupling Analysis (DCA) method that mimics the attention mechanism of several popular Transformer architectures, such as AlphaFold itself. The model's parameters, notably fewer than those in standard DCA-based algorithms, can be directly used for extracting structural determinants such as the contact map of the protein family under study. Additionally, the functional form of the energy function of the model enables us to deploy a multi-family learning strategy, allowing us to effectively integrate information across multiple protein families, whereas standard DCA algorithms are typically limited to single protein families. Finally, we implemented a generative version of the model using an autoregressive architecture, capable of efficiently generating new proteins in silico.

