# Predicting tremor improvement after MRgFUS thalamotomy in essential tremor from preoperative spontaneous brain activity: A machine learning approach

## 预测术前自发性脑活动特发性震颤的 MRgFUS 丘脑切开术后震颤改善：一种机器学习方法

Link: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2095927324005887?dgcid=rss_sd_all

<p>出版日期：2024 年 10 月 15</p><p><b>日 来源：</b>科学通报，第 69 卷，第 19 期</p><p>作者：张东、熊永琴、卢浩轩、段草辉、黄佳玉、李燕、卞祥兵、张德康、周佳友、潘龙生、楼欣</p>


---
# An approach for full space inverse materials design by combining universal machine learning potential, universal property model, and optimization algorithm

## 一种结合通用机器学习潜力、通用属性模型和优化算法的全空间逆材料设计方法

Link: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2095927324004948?dgcid=rss_sd_all

<p>出版日期：2024 年 10 月 15</p><p><b>日 来源：</b>Science Bulletin，第 69 卷，第 19 期</p><p>作者：Guanjian Cheng， Xin-Gao Gong， Wan-Jian Yin</p>


---
# Simultaneous Optimized Mechanical Stiffness and Cell Growth on Scaffold by Morphology Learning

## 通过形态学学习同时优化支架上的机械刚度和细胞生长

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23295

arXiv:2410.23295v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The morphology of microstructures in scaffolds is a critical factor influencing both mechanical properties and biological performance, such as cell growth, in bone tissue engineering. While metamaterials with optimized mechanical properties, such as hyperelasticity, thermal efficiency, or energy absorption, have been designed through complex microstructural geometry with the help of numerical simulation of multi-physics, optimizing biological performance alongside these physical traits remains a significant challenge. This is primarily because biological performance must be evaluated through laboratory experiments. To address this issue, we propose a novel approach that simultaneously optimizes mechanical stiffness and cell growth effectiveness through a data-driven morphology learning method. Our approach effectively extracts and learns shape patterns from a specifically selected dataset of microstructures recognized for their superior cell growth performance. We then integrate these patterns into a computational framework based on topology optimization, enabling the generation of new microstructures that maintain high levels of cell growth while enhancing mechanical stiffness. Using this morphology learning-based method, we identified a scaffold design for bone tissue engineering that demonstrates a significant improvement in both mechanical stiffness (by 29.69%) and cell proliferation (by 37.05% on Day 7 and 33.30% on Day 14).


---
# Performance of the MACE-MP-0 potential for calculating viscosity in LiF molten salt

## MACE-MP-0 电位计算 LiF 熔盐粘度的性能

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23679

arXiv：2410.23679v1 公告类型：new
摘要：我们使用 MACE-MP-0（小）机器学习的原子间势和经典的 Buckingham 和 Born-Huggins-Mayer 势对熔融氟化锂进行分子动力学模拟。我们发现 MACE-MP-0 开箱即用，能够准确再现整个液态的实验粘度。而之前根据经典电位预测的粘度被低估了，这以前被归因于抑制的熔化温度。我们发现，MACE-MP-0 仅通过加热晶体结构模拟的熔化温度明显更接近 LiF 的实验熔化温度。


---
# Learning State Preparation Circuits for Quantum Phases of Matter

## 学习物质量子相的状态准备电路

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23544

arXiv:2410.23544v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Many-body ground state preparation is an important subroutine used in the simulation of physical systems. In this paper, we introduce a flexible and efficient framework for obtaining a state preparation circuit for a large class of many-body ground states. We introduce polynomial-time classical algorithms that take reduced density matrices over $\mathcal{O}(1)$-sized balls as inputs, and output a circuit that prepares the global state. We introduce algorithms applicable to (i) short-range entangled states (e.g., states prepared by shallow quantum circuits in any number of dimensions, and more generally, invertible states) and (ii) long-range entangled ground states (e.g., the toric code on a disk). Both algorithms can provably find a circuit whose depth is asymptotically optimal. Our approach uses a variant of the quantum Markov chain condition that remains robust against constant-depth circuits. The robustness of this condition makes our method applicable to a large class of states, whilst ensuring a classically tractable optimization landscape.


---
# Enhancing light-matter coupling with electric fields in polar semiconductors

## 增强极性半导体中光-物质与电场的耦合

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23591

arXiv：2410.23591v1 Announce Type： cross
摘要：我们重新审视了自发和压电极化场本质上对极性半导体异质结构中的光发射有害的流行观点。在这里，我们证明了偏振可以通过量子限制斯塔克效应增强量子阱中的光-物质耦合，方法是在不将发射转移到更短波长的情况下减小阱宽。我们用红色发射 （644 nm-698 nm） AlInGaN 异质结构的范例来说明这一点，这对于实现多色微米级像素至关重要。通过使用机器学习系统地探索他们的设计空间，我们发现全局最优设计具有超过 8 MV/cm 的极端内部电场。电场的结构和成分工程不仅提供了对发射波长的精确控制，而且还将光发射概率提高了几个数量级。


---
# Quantum thermal machine regimes in the transverse-field Ising model

## 横向场 Ising 模型中的量子热机状态

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23710

arXiv:2410.23710v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We identify and interpret the possible quantum thermal machine regimes with a transverse-field Ising model as the working substance. In general, understanding the emergence of such regimes in a many-body quantum system is challenging due to the dependence on the many energy levels in the system. By considering infinitesimal work strokes, we can understand the operation from equilibrium properties of the system. We find that infinitesimal work strokes enable both heat engine and accelerator operation, with the output and boundaries of operation described by macroscopic properties of the system, in particular the net transverse magnetization. At low temperatures, the regimes of operation and performance can be understood from quasiparticles in the system, while at high temperatures an expansion of the free energy in powers of inverse temperature describes the operation. The understanding generalises to larger work strokes when the temperature difference between the hot and cold reservoirs is large. For hot and cold reservoirs close in temperature, a sufficiently large work stroke can enable refrigerator and heater regimes. Our results and method of analysis will prove useful in understanding the possible regimes of operation of quantum many-body thermal machines more generally.


---
# Physics of collective transport and traffic phenomena in biology: progress in 20 years

## 集体运输物理学和生物学中的交通现象：20 年的进展

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23735

arXiv:2410.23735v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Enormous progress have been made in the last 20 years since the publication of our review \cite{csk05polrev} in this journal on transport and traffic phenomena in biology. In this brief article we present a glimpse of the major advances during this period. First, we present similarities and differences between collective intracellular transport of a single micron-size cargo by multiple molecular motors and that of a cargo particle by a team of ants on the basis of the common principle of load-sharing. Second, we sketch several models all of which are biologically motivated extensions of the Asymmetric Simple Exclusion Process (ASEP); some of these models represent the traffic of molecular machines, like RNA polymerase (RNAP) and ribosome, that catalyze template-directed polymerization of RNA and proteins, respectively, whereas few other models capture the key features of the traffic of ants on trails. More specifically, using the ASEP-based models we demonstrate the effects of traffic of RNAPs and ribosomes on random and `programmed' errors in gene expression as well as on some other subcellular processes. We recall a puzzling empirical result on the single-lane traffic of predatory ants {\it Leptogenys processionalis} as well as recent attempts to account for this puzzle. We also mention some surprising effects of lane-changing rules observed in a ASEP-based model for 3-lane traffic of army ants. Finally, we explain the conceptual similarities between the pheromone-mediated indirect communication, called stigmergy, between ants on a trail and the floor-field-mediated interaction between humans in a pedestrian traffic. For the floor-field model of human pedestrian traffic we present a major theoretical result that is relevant from the perspective of all types of traffic phenomena.


---
# Neural Network Matrix Product Operator: A Multi-Dimensionally Integrable Machine Learning Potential

## 神经网络矩阵乘积运算符：多维可积机器学习的潜力

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23858

arXiv:2410.23858v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: A neural network-based machine learning potential energy surface (PES) expressed in a matrix product operator (NN-MPO) is proposed. The MPO form enables efficient evaluation of high-dimensional integrals that arise in solving the time-dependent and time-independent Schr\"odinger equation and effectively overcomes the so-called curse of dimensionality. This starkly contrasts with other neural network-based machine learning PES methods, such as multi-layer perceptrons (MLPs), where evaluating high-dimensional integrals is not straightforward due to the fully connected topology in their backbone architecture. Nevertheless, the NN-MPO retains the high representational capacity of neural networks. NN-MPO can achieve spectroscopic accuracy with a test mean absolute error (MAE) of 3.03 cm$^{-1}$ for a fully coupled six-dimensional ab initio PES, using only 625 training points distributed across a 0 to 17,000 cm$^{-1}$ energy range. Our Python implementation is available at https://github.com/KenHino/Pompon.


---
# Natural gradient and parameter estimation for quantum Boltzmann machines

## 量子玻尔兹曼机的自然梯度和参数估计

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24058

arXiv:2410.24058v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Thermal states play a fundamental role in various areas of physics, and they are becoming increasingly important in quantum information science, with applications related to semi-definite programming, quantum Boltzmann machine learning, Hamiltonian learning, and the related task of estimating the parameters of a Hamiltonian. Here we establish formulas underlying the basic geometry of parameterized thermal states, and we delineate quantum algorithms for estimating the values of these formulas. More specifically, we prove formulas for the Fisher--Bures and Kubo--Mori information matrices of parameterized thermal states, and our quantum algorithms for estimating their matrix elements involve a combination of classical sampling, Hamiltonian simulation, and the Hadamard test. These results have applications in developing a natural gradient descent algorithm for quantum Boltzmann machine learning, which takes into account the geometry of thermal states, and in establishing fundamental limitations on the ability to estimate the parameters of a Hamiltonian, when given access to thermal-state samples. For the latter task, and for the special case of estimating a single parameter, we sketch an algorithm that realizes a measurement that is asymptotically optimal for the estimation task. We finally stress that the natural gradient descent algorithm developed here can be used for any machine learning problem that employs the quantum Boltzmann machine ansatz.


---
# Multi-parameter optimal control of F1-ATPase

## F1-ATP 酶的多参数优化控制

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24122

arXiv：2410.24122v1 Announce 类型：cross
摘要： 生物分子机器在细胞中不同形式之间转换自由能，通常效率很高。最优控制理论提供了一个框架来阐明控制节能驾驶的设计原则。在这里，我们使用线性响应理论设计了有效的协议，在驱动的 F1-ATP 酶模型中对陷阱中心和刚度进行动态控制。我们发现，一个高效协议的关键设计原则可以通过对两个参数的动态控制来满足，也可以通过对单个参数的动态控制和第二个参数的良好静态选择来满足。这些结果表明，访问新程度的动态控制可以在不同的系统中提供不同的性能改进。


---
# Development of a Machine Learning Potential to Study Structure and Thermodynamics of Nickel Nanoclusters

## 开发机器学习潜力以研究镍纳米团簇的结构和热力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.14683

arXiv:2405.14683v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Machine Learning (ML) potentials such as Gaussian Approximation Potential (GAP) have demonstrated impressive capabilities in mapping structure to properties across diverse systems. Here, we introduce a GAP model for low-dimensional Ni nanoclusters and demonstrate its flexibility and effectiveness in capturing the energetics, structural diversity and thermodynamic properties of Ni nanoclusters across a broad size range. Through a systematic approach encompassing model development, validation, and application, we evaluate the model's efficacy in representing energetics and configurational features in low-dimensional regimes, while also examining its extrapolative nature to vastly different spatiotemporal regimes. Our analysis and discussion shed light on the data quality required to effectively train such models. Trajectories from large scale MD simulations using the GAP model analyzed with data-driven models like Graph Neural Networks (GNN) reveal intriguing insights into the size-dependent phase behavior and thermo-mechanical stability characteristics of porous Ni nanoparticles. Overall, our work underscores the potential of ML models which coupled with data-driven approaches serve as versatile tools for studying low-dimensional systems and complex material dynamics.


---
# Leveraging Persistent Homology Features for Accurate Defect Formation Energy Predictions via Graph Neural Networks

## 利用持久同源功能，通过图神经网络准确预测缺陷形成能量

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.05204

arXiv:2407.05204v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: In machine-learning-assisted high-throughput defect studies, a defect-aware latent representation of the supercell structure is crucial to the accurate prediction of defect properties. The performance of current graph neural network (GNN) models is limited due to the fact that defect properties depend strongly on the local atomic configurations near the defect sites and due to the over-smoothing problem of GNN. Herein, we demonstrate that persistent homology features, which encode the topological information of local chemical environment around each atomic site, can characterize the structural information of defects. Using the dataset containing a wide spectrum of \ch{O}-based perovskites with all available vacancies as an example, we show that incorporating the persistent homology features, along with proper choices of graph pooling operations, significantly increases the prediction accuracy, with the MAE reduced by 55\%. Those features can be easily integrated into the state-of-the-art GNN models, including the graph Transformer network and the equivariant neural network, and universally improve their performance. Besides, our model also overcomes the convergence issue with respect to the supercell size that was present in previous GNN models. Furthermore, using the datasets of defective \ch{BaTiO3} with multiple substitutions and multiple vacancies as examples, our GNN model can also predict the defect-defect interactions accurately. These results suggest that persistent homology features can effectively improve the performance of machine learning models and assist the accelerated discovery of functional defects for technological applications.


---
# Boolean SK Model

## 布尔 SK 模型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.08693

arXiv:2409.08693v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: For over half a century, statistical mechanics of spin glasses played as a paradigm to model and interpret disparate phenomena, ranging from quantitative biology to computer science. However, despite the extensive body of research in this area, there is still a notable lack of studies addressing the replacement of Ising spins with Boolean spins: as the latter play as bits in Machine Learning, this gap to fill is now mandatory. Purpose of this paper is to address this study by focusing on the mean field assumption, providing a comprehensive description of the results pertaining to these networks, referred to as the Boolean SK model due to their close relationship with the SK one. We provide a comprehensive framework for this model by employing Guerra interpolation: the thermodynamic limit, the replica symmetric and the broken replica free energy expressions are derived. Further, we inspect the onset of the replica symmetry breaking -- i.e., the de Almeida-Thouless line -- and derive Ghirlanda-Guerra fluctuations. All theoretical findings are corroborated by numerical inspections and both highlight crucial differences in the network's behavior if compared with the Ising SK model: as the temperature is lowered, no phase transitions are evidenced and the model continuously moves from a random (ergodic) behavior to a disordered (glassy) phase.


---
# Gaussian Universality in Neural Network Dynamics with Generalized Structured Input Distributions

## 具有广义结构化输入分布的神经网络动力学中的高斯普遍性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00642

arXiv：2405.00642v2 公告类型：replace-cross
摘要：弥合深度学习的实际性能与其理论基础之间的差距通常涉及通过随机梯度下降 （SGD） 分析神经网络。我们扩展了之前专注于在简单高斯设置下对结构化输入进行建模的研究，分析了在建模为高斯混合的输入上训练的深度学习系统的行为，以更好地模拟更通用的结构化输入。通过实证分析和理论调查，我们证明在某些标准化方案下，深度学习模型会收敛于高斯设置行为，即使输入数据遵循更复杂或更真实的分布。这一发现展示了一种普遍性，其中不同的结构化分布产生与高斯假设一致的结果，这可以支持深度学习模型的理论理解。


---
# Ab Initio Structure Solutions from Nanocrystalline Powder Diffraction Data

## 利用纳米晶粉末衍射数据提供的 Ab Initio 结构解决方案

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.10796

arXiv:2406.10796v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: A major challenge in materials science is the determination of the structure of nanometer sized objects. Here we present a novel approach that uses a generative machine learning model based on diffusion processes that is trained on 45,229 known structures. The model factors both the measured diffraction pattern as well as relevant statistical priors on the unit cell of atomic cluster structures. Conditioned only on the chemical formula and the information-scarce finite-size broadened powder diffraction pattern, we find that our model, PXRDnet, can successfully solve simulated nanocrystals as small as 10 angstroms across 200 materials of varying symmetry and complexity, including structures from all seven crystal systems. We show that our model can successfully and verifiably determine structural candidates four out of five times, with average error among these candidates being only 7% (as measured by post-Rietveld refinement R-factor). Furthermore, PXRDnet is capable of solving structures from noisy diffraction patterns gathered in real-world experiments. We suggest that data driven approaches, bootstrapped from theoretical simulation, will ultimately provide a path towards determining the structure of previously unsolved nano-materials.


---
# STIED: A deep learning model for the SpatioTemporal detection of focal Interictal Epileptiform Discharges with MEG

## STIED：一种用于用 MEG 时空检测局灶性发作间期癫痫样放电的深度学习模型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23386

arXiv:2410.23386v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Magnetoencephalography (MEG) allows the non-invasive detection of interictal epileptiform discharges (IEDs). Clinical MEG analysis in epileptic patients traditionally relies on the visual identification of IEDs, which is time consuming and partially subjective. Automatic, data-driven detection methods exist but show limited performance. Still, the rise of deep learning (DL)-with its ability to reproduce human-like abilities-could revolutionize clinical MEG practice. Here, we developed and validated STIED, a simple yet powerful supervised DL algorithm combining two convolutional neural networks with temporal (1D time-course) and spatial (2D topography) features of MEG signals inspired from current clinical guidelines. Our DL model enabled both temporal and spatial localization of IEDs in patients suffering from focal epilepsy with frequent and high amplitude spikes (FE group), with high-performance metrics-accuracy, specificity, and sensitivity all exceeding 85%-when learning from spatiotemporal features of IEDs. This performance can be attributed to our handling of input data, which mimics established clinical MEG practice. Reverse engineering further revealed that STIED encodes fine spatiotemporal features of IEDs rather than their mere amplitude. The model trained on the FE group also showed promising results when applied to a separate group of presurgical patients with different types of refractory focal epilepsy, though further work is needed to distinguish IEDs from physiological transients. This study paves the way of incorporating STIED and DL algorithms into the routine clinical MEG evaluation of epilepsy.


---
# Machine learning models with different cheminformatics data sets to forecast the power conversion efficiency of organic solar cells

## 具有不同化学信息学数据集的机器学习模型，用于预测有机太阳能电池的功率转换效率

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23444

arXiv:2410.23444v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Random Forest (RF) and Gradient Boosting Regression Trees (GBRT) regression models along with three cheminformatics data sets (RDkit, Mordred, Morgan) have been used to predict the power conversion efficiency (PCE) of organic solar cells (OSCs). The data consists of cheinformatics descriptors of the electron donor used in 433 OSCs for which the experimental PCE (target variable) is reported in the literature. The donor is either a polymer or a small organic molecule, and the acceptor the fullerene derivatives PCBM or PC71BM. Unlike previous methods, our ML approach considers the type of donor and the acceptor by adding four extra donor's features using the one-hot encoder tool. It is demonstrated that this additional information improves the prediction performance up to 34%. We have also exploited this feature to theoretically forecast the PCE of new OSCs by evaluating the ML model for a different acceptor. It is predicted that more than 50% of the OCSs obtained by exchanging the acceptor would have higher experimental PCE. The prediction accuracy of a given ML approach is analyzed for different PCE intervals. RF using RDkit descriptors resulted in the best ML approach with a Pearson's correlation coefficient for the training and testing sets equal to 0.96 and 0.62, respectively.


---
# Geographic Space as Manifolds

## 作为流形的地理空间

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23559

arXiv:2410.23559v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The communications and interrelations between different locations on the Earth's surface have far-reaching implications for both social and natural systems. Effective spatial analytics ideally require a spatial representation, where geographic principles are succinctly expressed within a defined metric space. However, common spatial representations, including map-based or network-based approaches, fall short by incompletely or inaccurately defining this metric space. Here we show, by introducing an inverse friction factor that captures the spatial constraints in spatial networks, that a homogeneous, low-dimensional spatial representation - termed the Geographic Manifold - can be achieved. We illustrate the effectiveness of the Geographic Manifold in two classic scenarios of spatial analytics - location choice and propagation, where the otherwise complicated analyses are reduced to straightforward regular partitioning and concentric diffusing, respectively on the manifold with a high degree of accuracy. We further empirically explain and formally prove the general existence of the Geographic Manifold, which is grounded in the intrinsic Euclidean low-dimensional statistical physics properties of geographic phenomena. This work represents a step towards formalizing Tobler's famous First Law of Geography from a geometric approach, where a regularized geospace thereby yielded is expected to contribute in learning abstract spatial structure representations for understanding and optimization purposes.


---
# Enhancing light-matter coupling with electric fields in polar semiconductors

## 增强极性半导体中光-物质与电场的耦合

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23591

arXiv：2410.23591v1 公告类型：new
摘要：我们重新审视了自发和压电极化场本质上对极性半导体异质结构中的光发射有害的流行观点。在这里，我们证明了偏振可以通过量子限制斯塔克效应增强量子阱中的光-物质耦合，方法是在不将发射转移到更短波长的情况下减小阱宽。我们用红色发射 （644 nm-698 nm） AlInGaN 异质结构的范例来说明这一点，这对于实现多色微米级像素至关重要。通过使用机器学习系统地探索他们的设计空间，我们发现全局最优设计具有超过 8 MV/cm 的极端内部电场。电场的结构和成分工程不仅提供了对发射波长的精确控制，而且还将光发射概率提高了几个数量级。


---
# SUANPAN: Scalable Photonic Linear Vector Machine

## SUANPAN：可扩展的光子线性向量机

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23659

arXiv:2410.23659v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Photonic linear operation is a promising approach to handle the extensive vector multiplications in artificial intelligence techniques due to the natural bosonic parallelism and high-speed information transmission of photonics. Although it is believed that maximizing the interaction of the light beams is necessary to fully utilize the parallelism and tremendous efforts have been made in past decades, the achieved dimensionality of vector-matrix multiplication is very limited due to the difficulty of scaling up a tightly interconnected or highly coupled optical system. Additionally, there is still a lack of a universal photonic computing architecture that can be readily merged with existing computing system to meet the computing power demand of AI techniques. Here, we propose a programmable and reconfigurable photonic linear vector machine to perform only the inner product of two vectors, formed by a series of independent basic computing units, while each unit is just one pair of light-emitter and photodetector. Since there is no interaction among light beams inside, extreme scalability could be achieved by simply duplicating the independent basic computing unit while there is no requirement of large-scale analog-to-digital converter and digital-to-analog converter arrays. Our architecture is inspired by the traditional Chinese Suanpan or abacus and thus is denoted as photonic SUANPAN. As a proof of principle, SUANPAN architecture is implemented with an 8*8 vertical cavity surface emission laser array and an 8*8 MoTe2 two-dimensional material photodetector array. We believe that our proposed photonic SUANPAN is capable of serving as a fundamental linear vector machine that can be readily merged with existing electronic digital computing system and is potential to enhance the computing power for future various AI applications.


---
# Physics of collective transport and traffic phenomena in biology: progress in 20 years

## 集体运输物理学和生物学中的交通现象：20 年的进展

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23735

arXiv:2410.23735v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Enormous progress have been made in the last 20 years since the publication of our review \cite{csk05polrev} in this journal on transport and traffic phenomena in biology. In this brief article we present a glimpse of the major advances during this period. First, we present similarities and differences between collective intracellular transport of a single micron-size cargo by multiple molecular motors and that of a cargo particle by a team of ants on the basis of the common principle of load-sharing. Second, we sketch several models all of which are biologically motivated extensions of the Asymmetric Simple Exclusion Process (ASEP); some of these models represent the traffic of molecular machines, like RNA polymerase (RNAP) and ribosome, that catalyze template-directed polymerization of RNA and proteins, respectively, whereas few other models capture the key features of the traffic of ants on trails. More specifically, using the ASEP-based models we demonstrate the effects of traffic of RNAPs and ribosomes on random and `programmed' errors in gene expression as well as on some other subcellular processes. We recall a puzzling empirical result on the single-lane traffic of predatory ants {\it Leptogenys processionalis} as well as recent attempts to account for this puzzle. We also mention some surprising effects of lane-changing rules observed in a ASEP-based model for 3-lane traffic of army ants. Finally, we explain the conceptual similarities between the pheromone-mediated indirect communication, called stigmergy, between ants on a trail and the floor-field-mediated interaction between humans in a pedestrian traffic. For the floor-field model of human pedestrian traffic we present a major theoretical result that is relevant from the perspective of all types of traffic phenomena.


---
# Stochastic Reconstruction of Gappy Lagrangian Turbulent Signals by Conditional Diffusion Models

## 通过条件扩散模型对 Gappy Lagrangian 湍流信号进行随机重建

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23971

arXiv:2410.23971v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We present a stochastic method for reconstructing missing spatial and velocity data along the trajectories of small objects passively advected by turbulent flows with a wide range of temporal or spatial scales, such as small balloons in the atmosphere or drifters in the ocean. Our approach makes use of conditional generative diffusion models, a recently proposed data-driven machine learning technique. We solve the problem for two paradigmatic open problems, the case of 3D tracers in homogeneous and isotropic turbulence, and 2D trajectories from the NOAA-funded Global Drifter Program. We show that for both cases, our method is able to reconstruct velocity signals retaining non-trivial scale-by-scale properties that are highly non-Gaussian and intermittent. A key feature of our method is its flexibility in dealing with the location and shape of data gaps, as well as its ability to naturally exploit correlations between different components, leading to superior accuracy, with respect to Gaussian process regressions, for both pointwise reconstruction and statistical expressivity. Our method shows promising applications also to a wide range of other Lagrangian problems, including multi-particle dispersion in turbulence, dynamics of charged particles in astrophysics and plasma physics, and pedestrian dynamics.


---
# Impact of normal lung volume choices on radiation pneumonitis risk prediction in locally advanced NSCLC radiotherapy

## 正常肺容量选择对局部晚期 NSCLC 放疗中放射性肺炎风险预测的影响

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24120

arXiv:2410.24120v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: This study is to evaluate the impact of different normal lung volumes on radiation pneumonitis (RP) prediction in patients with locally advanced non-small-cell-lung-cancer (LA-NSCLC) receiving radiotherapy. Three dosimetric variables (V20, V5, and mean lung dose (MLD)) were calculated using treatment plans from 442 patients with LA-NSCLC enrolled in NRG Oncology RTOG 0617. Three lung volumes were defined based on the treatment plan: total lung excluding gross-tumor-target (TL-GTV), total lung excluding clinical-target-volume (TL-CTV), and total lung excluding planning-target-volume (TL-PTV). Binary classification was used for clinical endpoints: no-RP2 (N = 377) for patients with acute RP grades 0 or 1, and RP2 (N = 65) for patients with acute grades 2 or higher. The impact of lung volume definition on RP prediction was investigated with statistical analyses and two supervised machine learning (ML) models: logistic regression (LR) and random forest (RF). Balanced data was generated for comparison to prediction obtained with the imbalanced data. Areas under curve (AUCs) and the Shapley Additive eXplanations (SHAP) were used to examine ML performance and explain the contribution of each feature to the prediction, respectively. Statistical analyses revealed that V20 and MLD were associated with RP but no difference among different lung volume definitions. Mean AUC values from 10-fold cross validation using imbalanced and balanced datasets were < 0.6 except that RF from the latter dataset yielded AUC values > 0.7. SHAP values indicated that MLD and V20 were the most prominent features in RP prediction. In all assessments, no difference among various volume definitions was found. Different lung volumes showed insignificant impact on RP prediction. Low AUC values suggest limited effectiveness of these dosimetric variables in predicting RP risk and more powerful predictors are needed.


---
# Multi-parameter optimal control of F1-ATPase

## F1-ATP 酶的多参数优化控制

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24122

arXiv：2410.24122v1 公告类型：new
摘要： 生物分子机器在细胞中不同形式之间转换自由能，通常效率很高。最优控制理论提供了一个框架来阐明控制节能驾驶的设计原则。在这里，我们使用线性响应理论设计了有效的协议，在驱动的 F1-ATP 酶模型中对陷阱中心和刚度进行动态控制。我们发现，一个高效协议的关键设计原则可以通过对两个参数的动态控制来满足，也可以通过对单个参数的动态控制和第二个参数的良好静态选择来满足。这些结果表明，访问新程度的动态控制可以在不同的系统中提供不同的性能改进。


---
# Optics tuning simulations for FCC-ee using Python Accelerator Toolbox

## 使用 Python Accelerator Toolbox 进行 FCC-ee 的光学调谐仿真

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24129

arXiv:2410.24129v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The development of ultra-low emittance storage rings, such as the e+/e- Future Circular Collider (FCC-ee) with a circumference of about 90 km, aims to achieve unprecedented luminosity and beam size. One significant challenge is correcting the optics, which becomes increasingly difficult as we target lower emittances. In this paper, we investigate optics correction methods to address these challenges. We examined the impact of arc region magnet alignment errors in the baseline optics for the FCC-ee lattice at Z energy. To establish realistic alignment tolerances, we developed a sequence of correction steps using the Python Accelerator Toolbox (PyAT) to correct the lattice optics, achieve the nominal emittance, Dynamic Aperture (DA), and in the end, the design luminosity. The correction scheme has been recently optimized and better machine performance demonstrated. A comparison was conducted between two optics correction approaches: Linear Optics from Closed Orbits (LOCO) with phase advance + $\eta_x$ and coupling Resonance Driving Terms (RDTs) + $\eta_y$. The latter method demonstrated better performance in achieving the target emittance and enhancing the DA.


---
# Variable Resolution Sampling and Deep Learning Image Recovery for Accelerated Multi-Spectral MRI Near Metal Implants

## 可变分辨率采样和深度学习图像恢复，用于金属植入物附近的加速多光谱 MRI

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23329

arXiv:2410.23329v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Purpose: This study presents a variable resolution (VR) sampling and deep learning reconstruction approach for multi-spectral MRI near metal implants, aiming to reduce scan times while maintaining image quality. Background: The rising use of metal implants has increased MRI scans affected by metal artifacts. Multi-spectral imaging (MSI) reduces these artifacts but sacrifices acquisition efficiency. Methods: This retrospective study on 1.5T MSI knee and hip data from patients with metal hardware used a novel spectral undersampling scheme to improve acquisition efficiency by ~40%. U-Net-based deep learning models were trained for reconstruction. Image quality was evaluated using SSIM, PSNR, and RESI metrics. Results: Deep learning reconstructions of undersampled VR data (DL-VR) showed significantly higher SSIM and PSNR values (p<0.001) compared to conventional reconstruction (CR-VR), with improved edge sharpness. Edge sharpness in DL-reconstructed images matched fully sampled references (p=0.5). Conclusion: This approach can potentially enhance MRI examinations near metal implants by reducing scan times or enabling higher resolution. Further prospective studies are needed to assess clinical value.


---
# Plug-and-play superiorization

## 即插即用的优越性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23401

arXiv:2410.23401v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: The superiorization methodology (SM) is an optimization heuristic in which an iterative algorithm, which aims to solve a particular problem, is ``superiorized'' to promote solutions that are improved with respect to some secondary criterion. This superiorization is achieved by perturbing iterates of the algorithm in nonascending directions of a prescribed function that penalizes undesirable characteristics in the solution; the solution produced by the superiorized algorithm should therefore be improved with respect to the value of this function. In this paper, we broaden the SM to allow for the perturbations to be introduced by an arbitrary procedure instead, using a plug-and-play approach. This allows for operations such as image denoisers or deep neural networks, which have applications to a broad class of problems, to be incorporated within the superiorization methodology. As proof of concept, we perform numerical simulations involving low-dose and sparse-view computed tomography image reconstruction, comparing the plug-and-play approach to a conventionally superiorized algorithm, as well as a post-processing approach. The plug-and-play approach provides comparable or better image quality in most cases, while also providing advantages in terms of computing time, and data fidelity of the solutions.


---
# Projected Neural Differential Equations for Learning Constrained Dynamics

## 用于学习约束动力学的投影神经微分方程

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23667

arXiv：2410.23667v1 公告类型：cross
摘要：神经微分方程为从数据中学习动态提供了一种强大的方法。但是，它们不会施加学习模型应遵守的已知约束。众所周知，在代理模型中强制执行约束可以提高其泛化性和数值稳定性。在本文中，我们介绍了投影神经微分方程 （PNDE），这是一种基于将学习到的向量场投影到约束流形的切空间来约束神经微分方程的新方法。在对几个具有挑战性的示例（包括混沌动力系统和最先进的电网模型）的测试中，PNDE 的性能优于现有方法，同时需要更少的超参数。所提出的方法在增强约束动力学系统的建模方面具有巨大潜力，特别是在精度和可靠性至关重要的复杂领域。


---
# Neural Network Matrix Product Operator: A Multi-Dimensionally Integrable Machine Learning Potential

## 神经网络矩阵乘积运算符：多维可积机器学习的潜力

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23858

arXiv:2410.23858v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: A neural network-based machine learning potential energy surface (PES) expressed in a matrix product operator (NN-MPO) is proposed. The MPO form enables efficient evaluation of high-dimensional integrals that arise in solving the time-dependent and time-independent Schr\"odinger equation and effectively overcomes the so-called curse of dimensionality. This starkly contrasts with other neural network-based machine learning PES methods, such as multi-layer perceptrons (MLPs), where evaluating high-dimensional integrals is not straightforward due to the fully connected topology in their backbone architecture. Nevertheless, the NN-MPO retains the high representational capacity of neural networks. NN-MPO can achieve spectroscopic accuracy with a test mean absolute error (MAE) of 3.03 cm$^{-1}$ for a fully coupled six-dimensional ab initio PES, using only 625 training points distributed across a 0 to 17,000 cm$^{-1}$ energy range. Our Python implementation is available at https://github.com/KenHino/Pompon.


---
# Learning Macroscopic Dynamics from Partial Microscopic Observations

## 从部分微观观察中学习宏观动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23938

arXiv:2410.23938v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Macroscopic observables of a system are of keen interest in real applications such as the design of novel materials. Current methods rely on microscopic trajectory simulations, where the forces on all microscopic coordinates need to be computed or measured. However, this can be computationally prohibitive for realistic systems. In this paper, we propose a method to learn macroscopic dynamics requiring only force computations on a subset of the microscopic coordinates. Our method relies on a sparsity assumption: the force on each microscopic coordinate relies only on a small number of other coordinates. The main idea of our approach is to map the training procedure on the macroscopic coordinates back to the microscopic coordinates, on which partial force computations can be used as stochastic estimation to update model parameters. We provide a theoretical justification of this under suitable conditions. We demonstrate the accuracy, force computation efficiency, and robustness of our method on learning macroscopic closure models from a variety of microscopic systems, including those modeled by partial differential equations or molecular dynamics simulations.


---
# A Priori Uncertainty Quantification of Reacting Turbulence Closure Models using Bayesian Neural Networks

## 使用贝叶斯神经网络对反应湍流闭合模型进行先验不确定性量化

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.18729

arXiv:2402.18729v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: While many physics-based closure model forms have been posited for the sub-filter scale (SFS) in large eddy simulation (LES), vast amounts of data available from direct numerical simulation (DNS) create opportunities to leverage data-driven modeling techniques. Albeit flexible, data-driven models still depend on the dataset and the functional form of the model chosen. Increased adoption of such models requires reliable uncertainty estimates both in the data-informed and out-of-distribution regimes. In this work, we employ Bayesian neural networks (BNNs) to capture both epistemic and aleatoric uncertainties in a reacting flow model. In particular, we model the filtered progress variable scalar dissipation rate which plays a key role in the dynamics of turbulent premixed flames. We demonstrate that BNN models can provide unique insights about the structure of uncertainty of the data-driven closure models. We also propose a method for the incorporation of out-of-distribution information in a BNN. The efficacy of the model is demonstrated by a priori evaluation on a dataset consisting of a variety of flame conditions and fuels.


---
# Ab Initio Structure Solutions from Nanocrystalline Powder Diffraction Data

## 利用纳米晶粉末衍射数据提供的 Ab Initio 结构解决方案

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.10796

arXiv:2406.10796v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: A major challenge in materials science is the determination of the structure of nanometer sized objects. Here we present a novel approach that uses a generative machine learning model based on diffusion processes that is trained on 45,229 known structures. The model factors both the measured diffraction pattern as well as relevant statistical priors on the unit cell of atomic cluster structures. Conditioned only on the chemical formula and the information-scarce finite-size broadened powder diffraction pattern, we find that our model, PXRDnet, can successfully solve simulated nanocrystals as small as 10 angstroms across 200 materials of varying symmetry and complexity, including structures from all seven crystal systems. We show that our model can successfully and verifiably determine structural candidates four out of five times, with average error among these candidates being only 7% (as measured by post-Rietveld refinement R-factor). Furthermore, PXRDnet is capable of solving structures from noisy diffraction patterns gathered in real-world experiments. We suggest that data driven approaches, bootstrapped from theoretical simulation, will ultimately provide a path towards determining the structure of previously unsolved nano-materials.


---
# Optical Diffusion Models for Image Generation

## 用于图像生成的光学漫射模型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.10897

arXiv:2407.10897v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Diffusion models generate new samples by progressively decreasing the noise from the initially provided random distribution. This inference procedure generally utilizes a trained neural network numerous times to obtain the final output, creating significant latency and energy consumption on digital electronic hardware such as GPUs. In this study, we demonstrate that the propagation of a light beam through a semi-transparent medium can be programmed to implement a denoising diffusion model on image samples. This framework projects noisy image patterns through passive diffractive optical layers, which collectively only transmit the predicted noise term in the image. The optical transparent layers, which are trained with an online training approach, backpropagating the error to the analytical model of the system, are passive and kept the same across different steps of denoising. Hence this method enables high-speed image generation with minimal power consumption, benefiting from the bandwidth and energy efficiency of optical information processing.


---
# Neural Pfaffians: Solving Many Many-Electron Schr\"odinger Equations

## 神经 Pfaffians：求解许多多电子 Schr\“odinger 方程

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.14762

arXiv:2405.14762v3 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Neural wave functions accomplished unprecedented accuracies in approximating the ground state of many-electron systems, though at a high computational cost. Recent works proposed amortizing the cost by learning generalized wave functions across different structures and compounds instead of solving each problem independently. Enforcing the permutation antisymmetry of electrons in such generalized neural wave functions remained challenging as existing methods require discrete orbital selection via non-learnable hand-crafted algorithms. This work tackles the problem by defining overparametrized, fully learnable neural wave functions suitable for generalization across molecules. We achieve this by relying on Pfaffians rather than Slater determinants. The Pfaffian allows us to enforce the antisymmetry on arbitrary electronic systems without any constraint on electronic spin configurations or molecular structure. Our empirical evaluation finds that a single neural Pfaffian calculates the ground state and ionization energies with chemical accuracy across various systems. On the TinyMol dataset, we outperform the `gold-standard' CCSD(T) CBS reference energies by 1.9m$E_h$ and reduce energy errors compared to previous generalized neural wave functions by up to an order of magnitude.


---
# Physics-Regularized Multi-Modal Image Assimilation for Brain Tumor Localization

## 用于脑肿瘤定位的物理正则化多模态图像同化

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.20409

arXiv:2409.20409v3 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Physical models in the form of partial differential equations serve as important priors for many under-constrained problems. One such application is tumor treatment planning, which relies on accurately estimating the spatial distribution of tumor cells within a patient's anatomy. While medical imaging can detect the bulk of a tumor, it cannot capture the full extent of its spread, as low-concentration tumor cells often remain undetectable, particularly in glioblastoma, the most common primary brain tumor. Machine learning approaches struggle to estimate the complete tumor cell distribution due to a lack of appropriate training data. Consequently, most existing methods rely on physics-based simulations to generate anatomically and physiologically plausible estimations. However, these approaches face challenges with complex and unknown initial conditions and are constrained by overly rigid physical models. In this work, we introduce a novel method that integrates data-driven and physics-based cost functions, akin to Physics-Informed Neural Networks (PINNs). However, our approach parametrizes the solution directly on a dynamic discrete mesh, allowing for the effective modeling of complex biomechanical behaviors. Specifically, we propose a unique discretization scheme that quantifies how well the learned spatiotemporal distributions of tumor and brain tissues adhere to their respective growth and elasticity equations. This quantification acts as a regularization term, offering greater flexibility and improved integration of patient data compared to existing models. We demonstrate enhanced coverage of tumor recurrence areas using real-world data from a patient cohort, highlighting the potential of our method to improve model-driven treatment planning for glioblastoma in clinical practice.

