# Spin reorientation and interplanar interactions of the two-dimensional triangular-lattice Heisenberg antiferromagnets $h\text{−}{(\mathrm{Lu},\mathrm{Y})\mathrm{MnO}}_{3}$ and $h\text{−}{(\mathrm{Lu},\mathrm{Sc})\mathrm{FeO}}_{3}$

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.110.134444

## 摘要翻译
Author(s): S. Yano, Junjie Yang, Kazuki Iida, Chin-Wei Wang, Andrew G. Manning, Daichi Ueta, and Shinichi Itoh<br /><p>This study explored the magnetic properties and dynamics of two, two-dimensional (2D) triangular-lattice Heisenberg antiferromagnets (2D-TLHAF), $h\text{−}(\mathrm{Lu},\mathrm{Y}){\mathrm{MnO}}_{3}$ and $h\text{−}(\mathrm{Lu},\mathrm{Sc}){\mathrm{FeO}}_{3}$, through neutron powder diffraction, singl…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 110, 134444] Published Thu Oct 31, 2024


---
# Quasihexagonal arrays of electric-skyrmion bubbles in thin-film ferroelectrics: Pattern formation and structure

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.110.144113

## 摘要翻译
Author(s): Maxim A. Makeev, Suyash Rijal, Sergei Prokhorenko, Yousra Nahas, and Laurent Bellaiche<br /><p>Topologically nontrivial patterns, such as quasiordered arrays of magnetic skyrmion bubbles and their electric analogs, have recently received the wide attention of researchers across disciplines. These structures and/or superstructures are considered as potential candidates for technological applic…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 110, 144113] Published Thu Oct 31, 2024


---
# Gigahertz-frequency antiferromagnetic resonances in the high-${T}_{\mathrm{c}}$ superconductor parent compound ${\mathrm{EuFe}}_{2}{\mathrm{As}}_{2}$

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.110.144449

## 摘要翻译
Author(s): Xiao Xiao, Zishuang Li, Zhenyu Gao, Lina Chen, Haozhe Wang, Shuai Zhang, Zui Tao, Chunjie Yan, and Ronghua Liu<br /><p>${\mathrm{EuFe}}_{2}{\mathrm{As}}_{2}$, a parent compound of iron pnictide high-${T}_{\mathrm{c}}$ superconductor, exhibits a twinned A-type antiferromagnetic order in the $\mathrm{E}{\mathrm{u}}^{2+}$ sublattice below 19 K, which can coexist with superconductivity under element substitution or high…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 110, 144449] Published Thu Oct 31, 2024


---
# Metamagnetism and tricriticalilty in the heavy-fermion ferromagnet URhGe

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.110.155159

## 摘要翻译
Author(s): A. S. Gubina and M. E. Zhitomirsky<br /><p>URhGe is a ferromagnetic superconductor with a distinctive magnetic behavior. In a field $H∥b$ applied perpendicular to the easy axis, URhGe exhibits an abrupt orientational transition of the magnetization with a reentrant superconducting phase emerging close to the transition field ${H}_{m}$. We de…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 110, 155159] Published Thu Oct 31, 2024


---
# Tunable giant anomalous Hall effect in the Kondo-lattice ferromagnet UBiTe

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.110.165162

## 摘要翻译
Author(s): Qiaozhi Xu, Hasan Siddiquee, Shannon Gould, Jiahui Althena Zhu, David Alonso Martinez, Christopher Broyles, Guangxin Ni, Tai Kong, and Sheng Ran<br /><p>Kondo-lattice systems are recognized for potentially hosting a variety of rich topological phases. Several pioneering studies have demonstrated significant anomalous Hall and anomalous Nernst effects in these systems, attributed to the Berry curvature of the hybridization bands. In this paper, we in…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 110, 165162] Published Thu Oct 31, 2024


---
# Insulating charge transfer ferromagnetism

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22399

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.22399v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We propose a mechanism for insulating ferromagnetism in the honeycomb Hubbard model of semiconductor moir\'e superlattices. The ferromagnetism emerges at critical charge transfer regime, stabilizing the quantum anomalous Hall state without Hund's coupling. We further note the ferromagnetic exchange applies to general charge transfer systems when breaking particle-hole symmetry.


---
# Microsecond electro-optic switching in the nematic phase of a ferroelectric nematic liquid crystal

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22441

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.22441v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Nematic liquid crystals exhibit nanosecond electro-optic response to an applied electric field which modifies the degree of orientational order without realigning the molecular orientation. However, this nanosecond electrically-modified order parameter (NEMOP) effect requires high driving fields, on the order of 100 V/um for a modest birefringence change of 0.01. In this work, we demonstrate that a nematic phase of the recently discovered ferroelectric nematic materials exhibits a robust and fast electro-optic response. Namely, a relatively weak field of 20 V/um changes the birefringence by 0.04 with field-on and-off times around 1 us. This microsecond electrically modified order parameter (MEMOP) effect shows a greatly improved figure of merit when compared to other electro-optical switching modes in liquid crystals, including the conventional Frederiks effect, and has a potential for applications in fast electro-optical devices such as phase modulators, optical shutters, displays, and beam steerers.


---
# Symmetry controlled single spin cycloid switching in multiferroic BiFeO3

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22447

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.22447v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The single variant spin cycloid and associated antiferromagnetic order in multiferroic BiFeO3 can provide a direct and predictable magnetoelectric coupling to ferroelectric order for deterministic switching, and also a key to fundamental understanding of spin transport and magnon-based applications in the system. (111) oriented BiFeO3 supplies an easy magnetic plane for the spin cycloid, but despite previous efforts, achieving deterministic switching of the single spin cycloid over multiple cycles remains challenging due to the presence of multiple spin cycloid domains in the (111) plane. Here we show that anisotropic in-plane strain engineering can stabilize a single antiferromagnetic domain and provide robust, deterministic switching. We grow BiFeO3 on orthorhombic NdGaO3 (011)o [(111)pc] substrates, breaking the spin cycloid degeneracy and by imposing a uniaxial strain in the (111) plane. This stabilization is confirmed through direct imaging with scanning NV microscopy and non-resonant X-ray diffraction. Remarkably, we achieved deterministic and non-volatile 180{\deg} switching of ferroelectric and associated antiferromagnetic domains over 1,000 cycles, significantly outperforming existing approaches. Our findings underscore that anisotropic strain engineering opens up exciting possibilities for (111)pc monodomain BiFeO3 in potential magnetoelectric and emerging magnonic applications.


---
# Morphogenesis of Spin Cycloids in a Non-collinear Antiferromagnet

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22463

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.22463v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Pattern formation in spin systems with continuous-rotational symmetry (CRS) provides a powerful platform to study emergent complex magnetic phases and topological defects in condensed-matter physics. However, its understanding and correlation with unconventional magnetic order along with high-resolution nanoscale imaging is challenging. Here, we employ scanning NV magnetometry to unveil the morphogenesis of spin cycloids at both the local and global scales within a single ferroelectric domain of (111)-oriented BiFeO$_3$ (which is a non-collinear antiferromagnet), resulting in formation of a glassy labyrinthine pattern. We find that the domains of locally oriented cycloids are interconnected by an array of topological defects and exhibit isotropic energy landscape predicted by first-principles calculations. We propose that the CRS of spin-cycloid propagation directions within the (111) drives the formation of the labyrinthine pattern and the associated topological defects such as antiferromagnetic skyrmions. Unexpectedly, reversing the as-grown ferroelectric polarization from [$\bar{1}$$\bar{1}$$\bar{1}$] to [111] induces a magnetic phase transition, destroying the labyrinthine pattern and producing a deterministic non-volatile non cycloidal, uniformly magnetized state. These findings highlight that (111)-oriented BiFeO$_3$ is not only important for studying the fascinating subject of pattern formation but could also be utilized as an ideal platform for integrating novel topological defects in the field of antiferromagnetic spintronics.


---
# Berezinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless transitions in a topological superconductor-ferromagnet-superconductor junction

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22514

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.22514v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We study quantum phase transitions in a long and narrow topological Josephson junction. The low-energy excitations comprise Majorana fermions propagating along the junction, coupled to magnons in an embedded ferromagnetic layer. Based on mean-field and renormalization group arguments, we predict the existence of Berezinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless transitions in this system, both in the case of a magnetic easy-plane and easy-axis anisotropy. In the easy-axis regime, this is based on an emerging effective easy-plane, spanned by the easy-axis and the component of the magnetization which couples to the Majoranas. We conclude by presenting a conjecture for the full phase diagram of the model.


---
# Highly tunable moir\'e superlattice potentials in twisted hexagonal boron nitrides

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22593

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.22593v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Moir\'e superlattice of twisted hexagonal boron nitride (hBN) has emerged as an advanced atomically thin van der Waals interfacial ferroelectricity platform. Nanoscale periodic ferroelectric moir\'e domains with out-of-plane potentials in twisted hBN allow the hosting of remote Coulomb superlattice potentials to adjacent two-dimensional materials for tailoring strongly correlated properties. Therefore, the new strategies for engineering moir\'e length, angle, and potential strength are essential for developing programmable quantum materials and advanced twistronics applications devices. Here, we demonstrate the realization of twisted hBN-based moir\'e superlattice platforms and visualize the moir\'e domains and ferroelectric properties using Kelvin probe force microscopy. Also, we report the KPFM result of regular moir\'e superlattice in the large area. It offers the possibility to reproduce uniform moir\'e structures with precise control piezo stage stacking and heat annealing. We demonstrate the high tunability of twisted hBN moir\'e platforms and achieve cumulative multi-ferroelectric polarization and multi-level domains with multiple angle mismatched interfaces. Additionally, we observe the quasi-1D anisotropic moir\'e domains and show the highest resolution analysis of the local built-in strain between adjacent hBN layers compared to the conventional methods. Furthermore, we demonstrate in-situ manipulation of moir\'e superlattice potential strength using femtosecond pulse laser irradiation, which results in the optical phonon-induced atomic displacement at the hBN moir\'e interfaces. Our results pave the way to develop precisely programmable moir\'e superlattice platforms and investigate strongly correlated physics in van der Waals heterostructures.


---
# CaCo$_2$TeO$_6$: A topochemically prepared 3$d^7$ honeycomb Kitaev magnet

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22604

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.22604v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We report the magnetic properties of CaCo$_2$TeO$_6$ as a Kitaev candidate. CaCo$_2$TeO$_6$ was synthesized through a topochemical process, wherein all Na$^+$ ions in Na$_2$Co$_2$TeO$_6$ were replaced with half the amount of Ca$^{2+}$ ions. This substitution brings the CoO$_6$ octahedra closer to an approximate cubic symmetry. CaCo$_2$TeO$_6$ exhibits antiferromagnetic ordering at $T_N \sim 13$ K, which is lower than $\sim$ 27 K observed for Na$_2$Co$_2$TeO$_6$. Notably, its magnetic order is suppressed in a relatively low magnetic field of approximately 4 T, indicating that non-Kitaev interactions can be restrained by reducing trigonal distortion. Our findings highlight the potential of CaCo$_2$TeO$_6$ as a viable platform for exploring Kitaev quantum spin liquids and pave the way for a deeper understanding of the fundamental mechanisms in Kitaev physics.


---
# Colossal magnetoresistance from spin-polarized polarons in an Ising system

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22727

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.22727v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Recent experiments suggest a new paradigm towards novel colossal magnetoresistance (CMR) in a family of materials EuM$_2$X$_2$(M=Cd, In, Zn; X=P, As), distinct from the traditional avenues involving Kondo-RKKY crossovers, magnetic phase transitions with structural distortions, or topological phase transitions. Here, we use angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES) and density functional theory (DFT) calculations to explore their origin, particularly focusing on EuCd$_2$P$_2$. While the low-energy spectral weight royally tracks that of the resistivity anomaly near the temperature with maximum magnetoresistance (T$_{MR}$) as expected from transport-spectroscopy correspondence, the spectra are completely incoherent and strongly suppressed with no hint of a Landau quasiparticle. Using systematic material and temperature dependence investigation complemented by theory, we attribute this non-quasiparticle caricature to the strong presence of entangled magnetic and lattice interactions, a characteristic enabled by the $p$-$f$ mixing. Given the known presence of ferromagnetic clusters, this naturally points to the origin of CMR being the scattering of spin-polarized polarons at the boundaries of ferromagnetic clusters. These results are not only illuminating to investigate the strong correlations and topology in EuCd$_2$X$_2$ family, but, in a broader view, exemplify how multiple cooperative interactions can give rise to extraordinary behaviors in condensed matter systems.


---
# Polarization boost and ferroelectricity down to one unit cell in layered Carpy-Galy La$_{2}$Ti$_{2}$O$_{7}$ thin films

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22902

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.22902v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Layered perovskite-based compounds offer a range of unconventional properties enabled by their naturally anisotropic structure. While most renowned for the superconductivity observed in the Ruddlesden-Popper phases, many of these layered compounds are also ferroelectric and exhibit a sizeable in-plane polarization. Among these, the Carpy-Galy phases (A${_n}$B${_n}$O$_{3n+2}$), characterized by 110-oriented perovskite planes interleaved with additional oxygen layers, have been debated as platforms for hosting not only a robust polarization but also multiferroicity and polar metallicity. However, the challenges associated with the synthesis of ultrathin Carpy-Galy films and understanding the impact of strain on their properties limit their integration into devices. Addressing this issue, our study focuses on La$_2$Ti$_2$O$_7$, an $n$=4 (A$_2$B$_2$O$_7$) representative of the Carpy-Galy family, exploring its growth and concurrent phase stability on various substrates under different strain conditions. Remarkably, we demonstrate that a 3% tensile strain from DyScO$_3$ (100) substrates promotes a controlled layer-by-layer growth mode, while SrTiO$_3$ (110) and LaAlO$_3$-Sr$_2$TaAlO$_6$ (110), that exert negligible and compressive strains respectively, require post-deposition annealing to achieve similar results. Using scanning probe microscopy, X-ray diffraction, scanning transmission electron microscopy, and polarization switching experiments, we confirm that these films possess exceptional ferroelectric properties, including a polarization of 18 $\mu$C/cm$^2$ - more than three times higher than previously reported - as well as persistence of ferroelectricity down to a single-unit-cell thickness. This study not only advances our understanding of Carpy-Galy phases in thin films but also lays a foundation for their application in advanced ferroelectric device architectures.


---
# Magnetic precursor to the structural phase transition in V$_2$O$_3$

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23030

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.23030v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The coupling between structural, electronic and magnetic degrees of freedom across the metal-insulator transition in V2O3 makes it hard to determine the main driving mechanism behind the transition. Specifically, the role of magnetism has been debated and its interplay with the other transitions has not been established. To address this issue, we use a combination of muon spin relaxation/rotation, electrical transport and reciprocal space mapping which allows to correlate magnetic, electronic and structural degrees of freedom in strain-engineered V2O3 thin films. Evidence is found for a magnetic instability in the vicinity of the structural transition. This is manifested as a decrease in the antiferromagnetic moment with temperature leading to a virtual N\'eel transition temperature which coincides with that of the structural and electronic transitions. Moreover, we find evidence for an onset of antiferromagnetic (AF) fluctuations in the rhombohedral phase even without a structural transition to the monoclinic phase. The non-congruence of the structural and magnetic transitions increases as the transition temperature is reduced by strain. In samples where the transition is most strongly suppressed by strain, a depth-dependent magnetic state is observed. These results reveal the importance of an AF instability in the paramagnetic phase in triggering the metal-insulator transition and the crucial role of the structural transition in allowing for the formation of an ordered AF state.


---
# Magnetic Order and Strain in Hexagonal Manganese Pnictide CaMn$_2$Bi$_2$

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23053

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.23053v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The manganese pnictide CaMn$_2$Bi$_2$, with Mn atoms arranged in a puckered honeycomb structure, exhibits narrow-gap antiferromagnetism, and it is currently a promising candidate for the study of complex electronic and magnetic phenomena, such as magnetotransport effects and potential spin spirals under high pressure. In this paper, we perform a detailed research of the magnetic properties of CaMn$_2$Bi$_2$ using density functional theory (DFT) combined with the Hubbard U correction and spin-orbit coupling, which accurately describe the magnetic interactions. Our results obtained for a large number of magnetic configurations are accurately captured by a modified Heisenberg model that includes on-site magnetization terms to describe magnetic energy excitations. We further investigate the role of the spin-orbit coupling, and find that the magnetic anisotropy of CaMn$_2$Bi$_2$ shows an easy plane, with the preferred magnetization direction being exchanged between axes in the plane by applying small strain values. This strain-tunable magnetization, driven by the interplay between spin-orbit interactions and lattice distortions, highlights the potential for controlling magnetic states in Mn-pnictides for future applications in spintronic and magnetoelectric devices.


---
# Magnetic and electronic inhomogeneity in Sm$_{1-x}$Eu$_x$B$_6$

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23199

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.23199v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: While SmB$_6$ attracts attention as a possible topological Kondo insulator, EuB$_6$ is known to host magnetic polarons that give rise to large magnetoresistive effects above its ferromagnetic order transition. Here we investigate single crystals of Sm$_{1-x}$Eu$_x$B$_6$ by magnetic and magnetotransport measurements to explore a possible interplay of these two intriguing phenomena, with focus on the Eu-rich substitutions. Sm$_{0.01}$Eu$_{0.99}$B$_6$ exhibits generally similar behavior as EuB$_6$. Interestingly, Sm$_{0.05}$Eu$_{0.95}$B$_6$ combines global antiferromagnetic order with local polaron formation. A pronounced hysteresis is found in the magnetoresistance of Sm$_{0.1}$Eu$_{0.9}$B$_6$ at low temperature ($T=$ 1.9 K) and applied magnetic fields between 2.3 $-$ 3.6 T. The latter is in agreement with a phenomenological model that predicts the stabilization of ferromagnetic polarons with increasing magnetic field within materials with global antiferromagnetic order.


---
# Ultrafast Entropy Production in Non-Equilibrium Magnets

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23205

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.23205v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We present an ultrafast thermodynamics framework to model heat generation and entropy production in laser-driven ferromagnetic systems. By establishing a connection between the magnetic field strength of the laser pulse and magnetization dynamics we model time-dependent entropy production rates and deduce the associated heat dissipation in epitaxial and polycrystalline FeNi and CoFeB thin films. Our theoretical predictions are validated by comparison to experimental magnetization dynamics data, shedding light on thermodynamic processes on picosecond timescales. Crucially, we incorporate recently observed inertial spin dynamics, to describe their impact on heat generation in pump-probe experiments. As such, this formalism provides novel insights into controlling heat production in magnetic systems, and contributes to advancing the understanding of non-equilibrium thermodynamics in magnetic systems, with implications for future experimental protocols in spintronics and nanotechnology.


---
# Voltage-driven dynamics of $\varphi_0$-S/F/S Josephson junctions chains

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.01207

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2406.01207v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Superconductor/ferromagnet/superconductor Josephson junctions with anomalous phase shift $\varphi_0$ ($\varphi_0$-S/F/S JJs) implement a coupling between the superconducting phase and the spin degrees of freedom. Here we investigate the dynamics of voltage-biased coupled chains of $\varphi_0$-S/F/S JJs and predict that the presence of $\varphi_0$ makes the conventional regime corresponding to the linear growth of the superconducting phase at each of the junctions and oscillating Josephson current unstable. New stable regimes are found and investigated. The changes of the dynamic behavior are clearly seen in the IV-characteristics of the system and can serve as a fingerprint of the presence of the magnetoelectric coupling $\varphi_0$. Moreover, the collective magnetic excitations of the chains of $\varphi_0$-S/F/S JJs, which were reported by G.A. Bobkov {\it et. al.} [JETP Lett. {\bf 119}, 251 (2024)] also manifest themselves in the IV-characteristics. This provides a method for their experimental detection and direct measurement of the constant quantifying the strength of the coupling between the superconducting phase and the spin degrees of freedom.


---
# Magnetic response and antiferromagnetic correlations in strained kagome ribbons

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.04514

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2406.04514v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We study the physics of the strong-coupling Hubbard model in a kagome lattice ribbon under mechanical tension and half-filling. It is known that in the absence of strain, the lattice symmetry of the system and strong electronic interactions induce magnetic frustration. As uniaxial strain is applied, the ribbon exhibits various configurations with energy oscillations that depend on the direction of the strain axis. The ground states are obtained by density-matrix renormalization-group calculations. We find that the system is characterized by strong antiferromagnetic bonds distributed throughout the lattice in directions and patterns that depend on strain directions and may coexist with easily polarizable sites that are only weakly correlated to their neighbors. We identify frustration and correlation measures that follow the strain and interaction dependence of the system well. These results illustrate that strain-dependent magnetic susceptibility could be explored experimentally to help probe the role of symmetry and interactions in these systems.


---
# Transition from antiferromagnetism to altermagnetism: symmetry breaking theory

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.17747

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.17747v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Altermagnetism, a recently proposed magnetic phase, is distinguished by the antiferromagnetic coupling of local magnetic moments and the breaking of time-reversal symmetry. Currently, the transition from conventional antiferromagnetism to altermagnetism is not well understood. In this letter, we introduce a comprehensive symmetry-breaking theory to elucidate this transition. Our approach involves analyzing magnetic point groups and their subgroups to identify potential pathways for the phase transition from collinear antiferromagnetism to altermagnetism. According to our theory, breaking inversion symmetry is crucial for this transition. We discovered that applying an external electric field is a highly effective method to realize altermagnetic phase, as demonstrated by first-principles calculations on the two-dimensional antiferromagnetic material MoTe. Furthermore, we show that the electronic spin polarization and spin-dependent transport can be significantly modulated by the applied vertical electric field. Our study not only sheds light on the magnetic phase transition from antiferromagnetic to altermagnetic materials but also presents a practical approach to control the charge-spin conversion ratio using an vertical electric field.


---
# Origin of Oxygen Partial Pressure-Dependent Conductivity in SrTiO3

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.20946

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.20946v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: SrTiO3 (STO) displays a broad spectrum of physical properties, including superconductivity, ferroelectricity, and photoconductivity, making it a standout semiconductor material. Despite extensive researches, the oxygen partial pressure-dependent conductivity in STO has re-mained elusive. This study leverages first-principles calculations, and systematically investigates the intrinsic defect properties of STO. The results reveal that VO, VSr, and TiSr are the dominant intrinsic defects, influencing STO's conductivity under varying O chemical potentials (oxygen partial pressures). Under O-poor condition, VO is the predominant donor, while VSr is the main acceptor. As the oxygen pressure increases, TiSr emerges as a critical donor defect under O-rich condition, significantly affecting conductivity. Additionally, the study elucidates the abnormal phenomenon where VTi, typically an acceptor, exhibits donor-like behavior due to the formation of O-trimer. This work offers a comprehensive understanding of how intrinsic defects tune the Fermi level, thereby altering STO's conductivity from metallic to n-type, and eventually to p-type across different O chemical potentials. These insights resolve the long-standing issue of oxygen partial pressure-dependent conductivity and explain the observed metallic conductivity in oxygen-deficient STO.


---
# Spin Seebeck in the weak exchange coupled van der Waals antiferromagnet

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22800

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.22800v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Spin Seebeck effect (SSE) refers to the creation of spin currents due to a temperature gradient in the magnetic materials or across magnet-normal metal interfaces, which can be electrically detected through the inverse spin Hall effect (ISHE) when in contact with heavy metals. It offers fundamental insights into the magnetic properties of materials, including the magnetic phase transition, static magnetic order, and magnon excitations. However, the SSE in van der Waals antiferromagnet is still elusive, especially across the spin-flip transition. Here, we demonstrate the SSE in the weak exchange coupled van der Waals antiferromagnet CrPS$_4$. The SSE increases as the magnetic field increases before the spin-flip transition due to the enhancement of the thermal spin current as a function of the applied field. A peak of SSE is observed at the spin-flip field, which is related to the magnon mode edges across the spin-flip field. Our results extend SSE research to van der Waals antiferromagnets and demonstrate an enhancement of SSE at the spin-flip transition.


---
# Large Orbital to Charge Conversion in Weak Spin Orbit Coupling Element Zr via Spin Orbital Pumping and Spin Orbital Seebeck Effect

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22851

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.22851v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The generation of spin-orbital currents is crucial for advancing energy-efficient spintronic devices. Here, the intricate process involved in the generation and conversion of spin and orbital to charge currents in Zr(t=2, 3, 4.5, 6, &10nm)/Co60Fe20B20(CFB), Zr/Pt/CFB, and Zr/Pt/CFB/Pt heterostructures are investigated using spin-orbital pumping ferromagnetic resonance and longitudinal spin-orbital Seebeck effect measurements. The moderate spin-orbit coupling (SOC) in the CFB layer facilitates the simultaneous generation of spin and orbital currents, which are transferred into adjacent Zr and Pt layers. Different spin-orbital to charge current contributions, namely, Inverse spin Hall effect (ISHE), Inverse orbital Hall effect (IOHE), and Inverse orbital Rashba-Edelstein effect (IOREE) are analyzed. Notably, introducing a single Pt layer increases the spin-orbital to charge current conversion via combined effects: ISHE in Pt, IOREE in Zr/Pt interface. An enhanced effective spin-orbital Hall angle ({\theta}_eff) of 0.120 {\pm} 0.004 is observed for Zr/Pt/CFB, compared to that of 0.065 {\pm} 0.002 for the Zr/CFB, and 0.077 {\pm} 0.003 for the Zr/Pt/CFB/Pt heterostructures. These findings provide new insights into orbital-moment dependent phenomena and offer promising avenues for developing advanced spintronic devices exploiting both spin and orbital degrees of freedom, even in materials with lower SOC.


---
# Highly tunable moir\'e superlattice potentials in twisted hexagonal boron nitrides

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22593

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.22593v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Moir\'e superlattice of twisted hexagonal boron nitride (hBN) has emerged as an advanced atomically thin van der Waals interfacial ferroelectricity platform. Nanoscale periodic ferroelectric moir\'e domains with out-of-plane potentials in twisted hBN allow the hosting of remote Coulomb superlattice potentials to adjacent two-dimensional materials for tailoring strongly correlated properties. Therefore, the new strategies for engineering moir\'e length, angle, and potential strength are essential for developing programmable quantum materials and advanced twistronics applications devices. Here, we demonstrate the realization of twisted hBN-based moir\'e superlattice platforms and visualize the moir\'e domains and ferroelectric properties using Kelvin probe force microscopy. Also, we report the KPFM result of regular moir\'e superlattice in the large area. It offers the possibility to reproduce uniform moir\'e structures with precise control piezo stage stacking and heat annealing. We demonstrate the high tunability of twisted hBN moir\'e platforms and achieve cumulative multi-ferroelectric polarization and multi-level domains with multiple angle mismatched interfaces. Additionally, we observe the quasi-1D anisotropic moir\'e domains and show the highest resolution analysis of the local built-in strain between adjacent hBN layers compared to the conventional methods. Furthermore, we demonstrate in-situ manipulation of moir\'e superlattice potential strength using femtosecond pulse laser irradiation, which results in the optical phonon-induced atomic displacement at the hBN moir\'e interfaces. Our results pave the way to develop precisely programmable moir\'e superlattice platforms and investigate strongly correlated physics in van der Waals heterostructures.


---
# Origin of Oxygen Partial Pressure-Dependent Conductivity in SrTiO3

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.20946

## 摘要翻译
arXiv:2410.20946v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: SrTiO3 (STO) displays a broad spectrum of physical properties, including superconductivity, ferroelectricity, and photoconductivity, making it a standout semiconductor material. Despite extensive researches, the oxygen partial pressure-dependent conductivity in STO has re-mained elusive. This study leverages first-principles calculations, and systematically investigates the intrinsic defect properties of STO. The results reveal that VO, VSr, and TiSr are the dominant intrinsic defects, influencing STO's conductivity under varying O chemical potentials (oxygen partial pressures). Under O-poor condition, VO is the predominant donor, while VSr is the main acceptor. As the oxygen pressure increases, TiSr emerges as a critical donor defect under O-rich condition, significantly affecting conductivity. Additionally, the study elucidates the abnormal phenomenon where VTi, typically an acceptor, exhibits donor-like behavior due to the formation of O-trimer. This work offers a comprehensive understanding of how intrinsic defects tune the Fermi level, thereby altering STO's conductivity from metallic to n-type, and eventually to p-type across different O chemical potentials. These insights resolve the long-standing issue of oxygen partial pressure-dependent conductivity and explain the observed metallic conductivity in oxygen-deficient STO.

