# Unique magnetic transition process demonstrating the effectiveness of bond percolation theory in a quantum magnet

## 独特的磁跃迁过程证明了量子磁体中键渗流理论的有效性

Link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-024-54335-6

<p>Nature Communications, Published online: 25 November 2024; <a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-024-54335-6">doi:10.1038/s41467-024-54335-6</a></p>Magnetic transitions are a paradigmatic example of phase transitions, but the effectiveness of universal percolation theory has not been proven in magnetic systems. Zheng et al. report a magnetic transition in the new pseudo-trigonal structure of Cu4(OH)6Cl2, which can be described by the bond percolation theory.


---
# Planar Hall Plateau in magnetic Weyl semimetals

## 磁性Weyl半金属中的平面霍尔高原

Link: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2095927324008326?dgcid=rss_sd_all

<p>Publication date: Available online 22 November 2024</p><p><b>Source:</b> Science Bulletin</p><p>Author(s): Lei Li, Chaoxi Cui, Run-Wu Zhang, Zhi-Ming Yu, Yugui Yao</p>


---
# Perspectives on antiferromagnetic magnonics

## 关于反铁磁磁子的观点

Link: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2095927324006418?dgcid=rss_sd_all

<p>Publication date: 15 November 2024</p><p><b>Source:</b> Science Bulletin, Volume 69, Issue 21</p><p>Author(s): Hanchen Wang, Haiming Yu</p>


---
# Exploring Aqueous Solution‐Processed Pseudohalide Rare‐Earth Double Perovskite Ferroelectrics toward X‐Ray Detection with High Sensitivity

## 探索水溶液加工的拟卤化物稀土双钙钛矿铁电体，以实现高灵敏度的x射线检测

Link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/anie.202413726?af=R

Angewandte Chemie International Edition, Volume 63, Issue 49, December 2, 2024.


---
# Inside Back Cover: Exploring Aqueous Solution‐Processed Pseudohalide Rare‐Earth Double Perovskite Ferroelectrics toward X‐Ray Detection with High Sensitivity (Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 49/2024)

## 后盖内部: 探索水溶液加工的拟卤化物稀土双钙钛矿铁电体，以实现高灵敏度的x射线检测 (Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 49/2024)

Link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/anie.202418007?af=R

Angewandte Chemie International Edition, Volume 63, Issue 49, December 2, 2024.


---
# Zeolitic Imidazolate Frameworks Derived Magnetic Nanocage/MXene/Nanocellulose Bilayer Aerogels for Low Reflection Electromagnetic Interference Shielding and Light‐to‐Heat Conversion

## 沸石咪唑酯骨架衍生的磁性纳米凝胶/MXene/纳米纤维素双层气凝胶，用于低反射电磁干扰屏蔽和光热转换

Link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202417947?af=R

Advanced Functional Materials, EarlyView.


---
# Probing the fluctuating magnetic field of Fe-triazole spin-crossover thin-layers with nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond

## 探测金刚石中具有氮空位中心的Fe-三唑自旋交叉薄层的波动磁场

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14454

arXiv:2411.14454v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Fe$^{\mathrm{II}}$ spin-crossover (SCO) complexes are materials that change their magnetic properties upon temperature variation, exhibiting a thermal hysteresis. Particularly interesting for magnetic-memory applications are thin layers of SCO complexes, where practical magnetic probing techniques are required. While conventional magnetometry on SCO complexes employs cryogenic temperatures, nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers are quantum magnetometers that can operate at room temperature with high spatial resolution and magnetic-field sensitivity. In this work, we apply thin layers of Fe-triazole SCO complexes directly onto a single-crystal diamond with shallow NV centers working as magnetic sensors and probe the fluctuating magnetic field. Using temperature-dependent NV-center $T_1$ measurements and a widefield technique, we find that the complexes are paramagnetic in the investigated temperature range from 20 {\deg}C to 80 {\deg}C. We quantitatively describe the $T_1$ time by a model considering the fluctuating magnetic field of the Fe$^{\mathrm{II}}$ ions. We see signatures of a local change of spin state in the $T_1$ relaxometry data, but structural changes in the SCO material dominate the local magnetic environment of the NV centers. Moreover, we conduct a Hahn echo to measure the $T_2$ time, which contrasts the findings of the $T_1$ times for the SCO complexes. We attribute this to different NV detection sensitivities towards Fe$^{\mathrm{II}}$ and Fe$^{\mathrm{III}}$ of the protocols. Our results on the magnetic properties of SCO materials highlight the capabilities of the NV center as a susceptible sensor for fluctuating magnetic fields. At the same time, a spin switching of the complexes cannot be observed due to the systematic challenges when working on nanometer distances to the SCO thin layers.


---
# Superconductivity in Ternary Germanite TaAl$_{x}$Ge$_{2-x}$ with a C40 chiral structure

## 具有C40手性结构的三元锗TaAl $_{x}$ Ge $_{2-x}$ 的超导电性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14549

arXiv:2411.14549v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We report a new family of chiral intermetallic superconductors TaAl$_{x}$Ge$_{2-x}$. The mother compound TaGe$_2$ has a C40-type chiral hexagonal crystal structure with a pair of enantiomorphic space groups of $P6{_2}22$ and $P6{_4}22$. By substituting Ge with Al, TaAl$_{x}$Ge$_{2-x}$ polycrystals with the C40 structure were synthesized with Al substitution $x$ from 0 to 0.8. Magnetic susceptibility, magnetization curves and electrical resistivity revealed that TaAl$_{x}$Ge$_{2-x}$ with $x$ of 0.2 to 0.4 was a type-II superconductor with a superconducting transition temperature $T_{\rm c}$ of 2.0 to 2.2 K. The superconductivity disappeared or was largely suppressed at $x$ less than 0.2 and more than 0.4, although all the measurements were performed at temperatures above 1.8 K. An emergence of superconductivity is discussed in terms of the lattice constants changes with the Al substitution.


---
# First-Principles Insights into the Site Occupancy and Stability of Ta-Fe-Al C14 Laves Phases

## Ta-fe-al C14 Laves相的场地占用和稳定性的第一性原理见解

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14575

arXiv:2411.14575v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: This study investigates the site occupancy preferences of Al in Ta(Fe$_{1-x}$Al$_x$)$_2$ Laves phases using first-principles calculations, with Al concentrations ranging from 0 at.\% to 50 at.\%. Al atoms exhibit a strong preference for occupying the $2a$ Wyckoff sites, with higher concentrations leading to more stable configurations when these sites are fully occupied. Magnetic configurations were explored, revealing that anti-ferromagnetic ordering is the most favorable at ground states. A phase diagram based on the chemical potential of Al was constructed to map phase stability, where Ta$_4$Fe$_6$Al$_2$ and Ta$_4$Fe$_2$Al$_6$ exhibit the largest stability ranges. The correlation between lattice distortions and phase stability was examined, demonstrating that symmetric Al distributions contribute to greater stability. These findings offer insight into the structural motifs expected in the Ta-Fe-Al system, providing a foundation for future investigations of structure-property correlations.


---
# Hybrid ferroelectric tunnel junctions: State-of-the-art, challenges and opportunities

## 混合铁电隧道结: 最新技术，挑战和机遇

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14670

arXiv:2411.14670v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Ferroelectric tunnel junctions (FTJs) harness the unique combination of ferroelectricity and quantum tunneling, and thus herald new opportunities in next-generation nonvolatile memory technologies. Recent advancements in the fabrication of ultrathin heterostructures have enabled the integration of ferroelectrics with various functional materials, forming hybrid tunneling-diode junctions. These junctions benefit from the modulation of the functional layer/ferroelectric interface through ferroelectric polarization, thus enabling further modalities and functional capabilities than in addition to tunneling electroresistance. This perspective aims to provide in-depth insight into novel physical phenomena of several typical ferroelectric hybrid junctions, ranging from ferroelectric/dielectric, ferroelectric/multiferroic, ferroelectric/superconducting to ferroelectric/2D materials, and finally their expansion into the realm of ferroelectric resonant tunneling diodes (FeRTDs). This latter aspect, i.e., resonant tunneling offers a radically new approach to exploiting tunneling behavior in ferroelectric heterostructures. We discuss examples that have successfully shown room temperature ferroelectric control of parameters such as the resonant peak, tunnel current ratio at peak and negative differential resistance. We conclude the perspective by summarizing the challenges and highlighting the opportunities for the future development of hybrid FTJs with a special emphasis on a new possible type of FeRTD device. The prospects for enhanced performance and expanded functionality ignite tremendous excitement in hybrid FTJs and FeRTDs for future nanoelectronics.


---
# Glassy Relaxation Dynamics in the Two-Dimensional Heavy Fermion Antiferromagnet CeSiI

## 二维重费米子反铁磁体CeSiI中的玻璃弛豫动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14722

arXiv:2411.14722v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The recent discovery of the van der Waals (vdW) layered heavy fermion antiferromagnetic metal CeSiI offers promising potential for achieving accessible quantum criticality in the two-dimensional (2D) limit. CeSiI exhibits both heavy fermion behavior and antiferromagnetic (AFM) ordering, while the exact magnetic structure and phase diagram have yet to be determined. Here, we investigate magnetic properties of atomically thin CeSiI devices with thicknesses ranging from 2-15 vdW layers. The thickness-dependent magnetotransport measurement reveals an intrinsic 2D nature of heavy fermion behavior and antiferromagnetism. Notably, we also find an isotropic, time-dependent hysteresis in both magnetoresistance and Hall resistance, showing glassy relaxation dynamics. This glassy behavior in magnetic structures may suggest the presence of spin glass phases or multipolar ordering, further establishing CeSiI as an intriguing material system for investigating the interplay between magnetic orders and the Kondo effect.


---
# Magnetic resonance frequency of two-sublattice ferrimagnet with magnetic compensation temperature

## 具有磁补偿温度的两亚格铁磁体的磁共振频率

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14792

arXiv:2411.14792v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Ferrimagnetic materials with a compensation temperature have recently attracted interest because of their unique combination of ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic properties. However, their magnetization dynamics near the compensation temperature are complex and cannot be fully explained by conventional ferromagnetic resonance (FMR) or exchange resonance modes. Therefore, practical models are necessary to capture these dynamics accurately. In this study, we derived the analytical solutions for the magnetic resonance frequencies of compensated ferrimagnets over all temperature ranges, considering both the in-plane and out-of-plane orientations of the magnetization. Our solutions successfully reproduce the experimental data obtained from time-resolved magneto-optical Faraday rotation and Brillouin light scattering measurements for the in-plane and out-of-plane cases, respectively. This reproduction is achieved by incorporating the exchange stiffness and temperature dependence of the magnetic anisotropy into the free energy density. Additionally, at temperatures sufficiently far from the compensation temperature, our analytical solutions converge with the conventional FMR and exchange resonance models.


---
# Efficient Generation of Spin Currents in Altermagnets via Magnon Drag

## 通过磁振子拖曳有效地产生高磁中的自旋电流

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14803

arXiv:2411.14803v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Altermagnets, a recently identified class of magnetic materials, possess a spin-split Fermi surface that results in the so-called spin splitter effect, enabling the generation of a spin current transverse to the injection direction and whose polarization lies along the N\'eel vector. In this study, we investigate how magnons interact with electrons in an altermagnetic metal. We find that while the electron-magnon interaction does not perturb the magnon dispersion, a charge current flowing in the material can induce a transverse magnon spin current, analogous to the electronic spin splitter effect. This spin current possesses both electronic and magnonic characteristics, i.e., a chemical potential dependence and a strong temperature dependence. This effect realizes the efficient generation of spin currents via magnons without depending on the material's spin-orbit coupling.


---
# Non-Majorana-origin of the half-integer conductance quantization elucidated by multi-terminal superconductor-quantum anomalous Hall insulator heterostructure

## 多端超导体-量子反常霍尔绝缘体异质结构阐明的半整数电导量子化的非主要起源

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14903

arXiv:2411.14903v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Chiral one-dimensional transport can be realized in thin films of a surface-insulating ferromagnetic topological insulator called quantum anomalous Hall insulator (QAHI). When superconducting (SC) pairing correlations are induced in the surface of such a material by putting an $s$-wave superconductor on the top, the resulting topological superconductivity gives rise to chiral Majorana edge-modes. A quantized two-terminal conductance of $\frac{1}{2}(e^2/h)$ was proposed as a smoking-gun evidence for the topological SC phase associated with a single chiral Majorana edge-mode. There have been experiments to address this proposal, but the conclusion remains unclear. Here, we formulate the edge transport in a multi-terminal superconductor-QAHI heterostructure using the Landauer-B\"uttiker formalism. Compared to the original proposal for the $\frac{1}{2}(e^2/h)$-quantization based on a simple two-terminal model, our formalism allows for deeper understanding of the origin of the quantization. The analysis of our experiments on multi-terminal devices unambiguously shows that the half-integer conductance quantization arises from the equilibration of the potentials of the incoming edge states at the SC electrode, and hence it is not of Majorana origin.


---
# Enhancement of dynamical coupling in artificial spin-ice systems by incorporating perpendicularly magnetized ferromagnetic matrix

## 通过结合垂直磁化的铁磁基质来增强人工自旋冰系统中的动力学耦合

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14918

arXiv:2411.14918v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Artificial spin-ice systems, consisting of arrays of interacting ferromagnetic nanoelements, offer a versatile platform for reconfigurable magnonics with potential in GHz logic and neuromorphic computing. However, weak dipolar coupling between nanoelements severely limits their functionality. We numerically demonstrate a rich spin-wave spectrum in a square spin-ice structure immersed in a perpendicularly magnetized ferromagnetic matrix, which is different from a single spin-ice system. We observe a strong magnon-magnon coupling between the bulk second-order mode of the nanoelements and the fundamental mode of the matrix, supported by a pronounced anticrossing frequency gap. We show that, in addition to the dipolar coupling, exchange interactions at the nanoelement-matrix interface play a crucial role in this hybridization. Furthermore, the strength of the coupling can be enhanced by almost 40% just by reconfiguring the magnetization at the vertices from low-energy to high-energy monopole states. These results open the way to exploit artificial spin-ice systems for magnonic applications, taking advantage of the strong coupling and vertex-dependent dynamics.


---
# Exciton Dressing by Extreme Nonlinear Magnons in a Layered Semiconductor

## 层状半导体中极端非线性磁振子的激子修整

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14943

arXiv:2411.14943v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Collective excitations presenting nonlinear dynamics are fundamental phenomena with broad applications. A prime example is nonlinear optics, where diverse frequency mixing processes are central to communication, sensing, wavelength conversion, and attosecond physics. Leveraging recent progress in van der Waals magnetic semiconductors, we demonstrate nonlinear opto-magnonic coupling by presenting exciton states dressed by up to 20 harmonics of magnons, resulting from their nonlinearities, in the layered antiferromagnetic semiconductor CrSBr. We also create tunable optical side bands from sum- and difference-frequency generation between two optically bright magnon modes under symmetry breaking magnetic fields. Moreover, the observed difference-frequency generation mode can be continuously tuned into resonance with one of the fundamental magnons, resulting in parametric amplification of magnons. These findings realize the modulation of the optical frequency exciton with the extreme nonlinearity of magnons at microwave frequencies, which could find applications in magnonics and hybrid quantum systems, and provide new avenues for implementing opto-magnonic devices.


---
# Magnon spintronics with Van der Waals magnets: from fundamentals to devices

## 具有范德华磁体的磁振子自旋电子学: 从基础到设备

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14979

arXiv:2411.14979v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Spintronics is concerned with replacing charge current with current of spin, the electron's intrinsic angular momentum. In magnetic insulators, spin currents are carried by magnons, the quanta of spin-wave excitations on top of the magnetically ordered state. Magnon spin currents are especially promising for information technology due to their low intrinsic damping, non-reciprocal transport, micrometer wavelengths at microwave frequencies, and strong interactions that enable signal transduction. In this perspective, we give our view on the progress and challenges towards realizing magnon spintronics based on atomically thin Van der Waals magnets, a recently discovered class of magnetic materials of which the tunability and versatility has attracted a great deal of ongoing research.


---
# Boundary conditions for and ferromagnetic resonance spectra of magnetic bilayers coupled by interlayer Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interactions

## 层间dzyaloshinskii-moriya相互作用耦合的磁性双层的边界条件和铁磁共振谱

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.15010

arXiv:2411.15010v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Interfacial Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction (IF-DMI) leads to non-collinear spin configurations within the magnetic layers of multilayer heterostructures, while its interlayer counterpart (IL-DMI) minimizes chiral states between the layers. Here, we demonstrate that the symmetries of these interactions are very different, even though both arise from pairwise exchange interactions between magnetic sites mediated by nonmagnetic atoms. By deriving new boundary conditions for the exchange operator and solving the associated boundary value problem, we show that, unlike IF-DMI, which does not contribute to the FMR frequencies, IL-DMI alters the frequencies of the fundamental FMR modes and can be separated from other contributions in an FMR experiment.


---
# Thermal expansion in rare-earth cage systems: examples from the RB6 and RPt4Ge12 series

## 稀土笼系统中的热膨胀: RB6和RPt4Ge12系列的示例

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.15052

arXiv:2411.15052v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: In some intermetallic compounds, the crystallographic structure allows for an unusual latitude of movement of lanthanide ions inside so-called cages. Examples of such magnetic cage systems include the rare-earth hexaborides RB6 and filled skutterudites RPt4Ge12 series. In both instances, the rare-earth site, at the center of the cage, is of high symmetry, which may preserve some degree of orbital degeneracy. A deviation from the cage center lifts this degeneracy, yielding an interplay between the rare-earth movement and the system properties in the paramagnetic range. In particular, the low temperature thermal expansion should reflect this cage-specific crystal field contribution. This study presents an experimental investigation of the thermal expansion in the paramagnetic range of some elements in the aforementioned series. From a simple model for the vibrations in cage systems, a description of the phononic thermal expansion is proposed, within the quasi-harmonic approximation. Accounting for this non-magnetic contributions helps discern the influence of the orbital degeneracy at low temperature.


---
# Covariance-based method for eigenstate factorization and generalized singlets

## 基于协方差的本征态分解和广义单峰方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04426

arXiv:2311.04426v2 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We derive a general method for determining the necessary and sufficient conditions for exact factorization $|\Psi\rangle=\otimes_p |\psi_p\rangle$ of an eigenstate of a many-body Hamiltonian $H$, based on the quantum covariance matrix of the relevant local operators building the Hamiltonian. The "site" $p$ can be either a single component or a group of subsystems. The formalism is then used to derive exact dimerization and clusterization conditions in spin systems, covering from spin-$s$ singlets and clusters coupled to $0$ total spin to general nonmaximally entangled spin-$s$ dimers (generalized singlets). New results for field induced dimerization in anisotropic $XYZ$ arrays under a magnetic field are obtained.


---
# 2D Semiconductors Superlattices as Hyperbolic Materials

## 作为双曲材料的2D半导体超晶格

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14785

arXiv:2411.14785v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Hyperbolic materials are natural or engineered artificial structures that provide means to manipulate and control electromagnetic radiation, leading to a variety of strong light-matter interactions at the nanoscale. In this work, we explore the physical properties of the optical response of 2D semiconductor-based superlattices, which are engineered with atomic precision and composed of alternating 2D semiconductor monolayers and hexagonal-boron-nitride. We find that such superlattices exhibit a robust hyperbolic response at the visible to near-infrared spectrum, and with dimensions that are an order of magnitude smaller compared to conventional metal-based hyperbolic metamaterials, down to three active monolayers. By employing both analytical and numerical studies, we show that by varying the superlattice configuration we can control and manipulate the nature of the hyperbolic response. Finaly, we propose an optimal structure that will enable the experimental observation of this hyperbolic response in 2D semiconductors superlattices. Such highly compact hyperbolic materials of atomic precision could open the way for deep-subwavelength optoelectronic devices with extremely small footprint.


---
# Symmetry invariants and classes of quasiparticles in magnetically ordered systems having weak spin-orbit coupling

## 具有弱自旋轨道耦合的磁有序系统中的对称不变量和准粒子类别

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2105.12738

arXiv:2105.12738v5 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Symmetry invariants of a group specify the classes of quasiparticles, namely the classes of projective irreducible co-representations in systems having that symmetry. More symmetry invariants exist in discrete point groups than the full rotation group $\mathrm{O(3)}$, leading to new quasiparticles restricted to lattices that do not have any counterpart in a vacuum. We focus on the fermionic quasiparticle excitations under ``spin-space group'' symmetries, applicable to materials where long-range magnetic order and itinerant electrons coexist. We provide a list of 218 classes of new quasiparticles that can only be realized in the spin-space groups. These quasiparticles have at least one of the following properties that are qualitatively distinct from those discovered in magnetic space group(MSG)s, and distinct from each other:(i) degree of degeneracy,(ii) dispersion as function of momentum, and(iii) rules of coupling to external probe fields. We rigorously prove this result as a theorem that directly relates these properties to the symmetry invariants, and then illustrate this theorem with a concrete example, by comparing three 12-fold fermions having different sets of symmetry invariants including one discovered in MSG. Our approach can be generalized to realize more quasiparticles whose little co-groups are beyond those considered in our work.


---
# Nagaoka ferromagnetism in doped Hubbard models in optical lattices

## 光学晶格中掺杂的Hubbard模型中的Nagaoka铁磁性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.05683

arXiv:2305.05683v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: The search for ferromagnetism in the Hubbard model has been a problem of outstanding interest since Nagaoka's original proposal in 1966. Recent advances in quantum simulation have today enabled the study of tunable doped Hubbard models in ultracold atomic systems. Employing large-scale density-matrix renormalization group calculations, we establish the existence of high-spin ground states of the Hubbard model on finite-sized triangular lattices, analyze the microscopic mechanisms behind their origin, and investigate the interplay between ferromagnetism and other competing orders, such as stripes. These results explain$\unicode{x2014}$and shed new light on$\unicode{x2014}$the intriguing observations of ferromagnetic correlations in recent optical-lattice experiments. Additionally, we examine a generalized variant of the Hubbard model, wherein any second electron on a single lattice site is weakly bound compared to the first one, and demonstrate how this modification can lead to enhanced ferromagnetism, at intermediate length scales, on the nonfrustrated square lattice as well.


---
# Characterisation of three-body loss in ${}^{166}$Er and optimised production of large Bose-Einstein condensates

## $ {}^{ 166}$ Er中三体损失的表征和大玻色-爱因斯坦凝聚体的优化生产

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.01245

arXiv:2307.01245v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Ultracold gases of highly magnetic lanthanide atoms have enabled the realisation of dipolar quantum droplets and supersolids. However, future studies could be limited by the achievable atom numbers and hindered by high three-body loss rates. Here we study density-dependent atom loss in an ultracold gas of ${}^{166}$Er for magnetic fields below 4 G, identifying six previously unreported, strongly temperature-dependent features. We find that their positions and widths show a linear temperature dependence up to at least $15\,\mu\textrm{K}$. In addition, we observe a weak, polarisation-dependent shift of the loss features with the intensity of the light used to optically trap the atoms. This detailed knowledge of the loss landscape allows us to optimise the production of dipolar BECs with more than $2 \times 10^5$ atoms and points towards optimal strategies for the study of large-atom-number dipolar gases in the droplet and supersolid regimes.


---
# Polaronic mechanism of Nagaoka ferromagnetism in Hubbard models

## Hubbard模型中Nagaoka铁磁性的极化机理

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.09279

arXiv:2311.09279v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: The search for elusive Nagaoka-type ferromagnetism in the Hubbard model has recently enjoyed renewed attention with the advent of a variety of experimental platforms enabling its realization, including moir\'e materials, quantum dots, and ultracold atoms in optical lattices. Here, we demonstrate a universal mechanism for Nagaoka ferromagnetism (that applies to both bipartite and nonbipartite lattices) based on the formation of ferromagnetic polarons consisting of a dopant dressed with polarized spins. Using large-scale density-matrix renormalization group calculations, we present a comprehensive study of the ferromagnetic polaron in an electron-doped Hubbard model, establishing various polaronic properties such as its size and energetics. Moreover, we systematically probe the internal structure of the magnetic state$\unicode{x2014}$through the use of pinning fields and three-point spin-charge-spin correlation functions$\unicode{x2014}$for both the single-polaron limit and the high-density regime of interacting polarons. Our results highlight the crucial role of mobile polarons in the birth of global ferromagnetic order from local ferromagnetism and provide a unified framework to understand the development and demise of the Nagaoka-type ferromagnetic state across dopings.


---
# Decoherence of electron spin qubit during transfer between two semiconductor quantum dots at low magnetic fields

## 低磁场下两个半导体量子点之间转移过程中电子自旋量子位的退相干

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.12185

arXiv:2405.12185v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Electron shuttling is one of the current avenues being pursued to scale semiconductor quantum dot-based spin qubits. Adiabatic spin qubit transfer along a chain of tunnel-coupled quantum dots is one of the possible schemes. In this scheme, we theoretically analyze the dephasing of a spin qubit that is adiabatically transferred between two tunnel-coupled quantum dots. We focus on the regime where the Zeeman splitting is lower than the tunnel coupling, such that interdot tunneling with spin flip is absent. We analyze the sources of errors in spin-coherent electron transfer for Si- and GaAs-based quantum dots. In addition to the obvious effect of fluctuations in spin splitting within each dot, leading to finite $T_{2}^{*}$ for the stationary spin qubit, we consider the effects activated by detuning sweeps: failure of charge transfer due to charge noise and phonons, spin relaxation due to the enhancement of spin-orbit mixing at the tunnel-induced anticrossing of states localized in the two dots, and spin dephasing caused by low- and high-frequency noise coupling to the electron's charge. We show that the latter effect is activated by differences in Zeeman splittings between the two dots. Importantly, all the error mechanisms are more dangerous at low tunnel couplings. Our results indicate that away from micromagnets, maximizing the fidelity of coherent transfer aligns with minimizing charge transfer error that was previously considered in J. A. Krzywda and L. Cywi\'nski, Phys. Rev. B 104 075439 (2021). For silicon, we suggest having tunnel coupling fulfilling $ 2t_c \gtrsim 60 \, \mu$eV when one aims to coherently transfer a spin qubit across a $\sim \!10$ $\mu$m long array of $\sim \! 100$ quantum dots with error less than $10^{-3}$.


---
# Structural Properties of Plastically Deformed SrTiO3 and KTaO3

## 塑性变形的SrTiO3和KTaO3的结构特性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.13249

arXiv:2405.13249v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Dislocation engineering has the potential to open new avenues toward the exploration and modification of the properties of quantum materials. Strontium titanate (SrTiO3, STO) and potassium tantalate (KTaO3, KTO) are incipient ferroelectrics that show metallization and superconductivity at extremely low charge carrier concentrations, and have been the subject of resurgent interest. These materials also exhibit remarkable ambient-temperature ductility, and thus represent exceptional platforms for studies of the effects of deformation-induced dislocation structures on electronic properties. Recent work on plastically deformed STO revealed an enhancement of the superconducting transition temperature and the emergence of local ferroelectricity and magnetism near self-organized dislocation walls. Here we present a comprehensive structural analysis of plastically deformed STO and KTO, employing specially designed strain cells, diffuse neutron and x-ray scattering, Raman scattering, and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). Diffuse scattering and NMR provide insight into the dislocation configurations and densities and their dependence on strain. As in the prior work on STO, Raman scattering reveals evidence for local ferroelectric order near dislocation walls in plastically deformed KTO. Our findings provide valuable information about the self-organized defect structures in both materials, and they position KTO as a second model system with which to explore the associated emergent physics.


---
# Symmetry Origin and Microscopic Mechanism of Electrical Magnetochiral Anisotropy in Tellurium

## 碲中电磁手性各向异性的对称起源和微观机制

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.17389

arXiv:2406.17389v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Non-linear transport effects in response to external magnetic fields, i.e. electrical magnetochiral anisotropy (eMChA), have attracted much attention for their importance to study quantum and spin-related phenomena. Indeed, they have permitted the exploration of topological surface states and charge-to-spin conversion processes in low-symmetry systems. Nevertheless, despite the inherent correlation between the symmetry of the material under examination and its non-linear transport characteristics, there is a lack of experimental demonstration to delve into this relationship and to unveil their microscopic mechanisms. Here, we study eMChA in chiral elemental Tellurium (Te) along different crystallographic directions, establishing the connection between the different eMChA components and the crystal symmetry of Te. We observed different longitudinal eMChA components with collinear current and magnetic field, demonstrating experimentally the radial angular momentum texture of Te. We also measured a transverse non-linear resistance which, as the longitudinal counterpart, scales bilinearly with current and magnetic fields, illustrating that they are different manifestations of the same effect. Finally, we study the scaling law of the eMChA, evidencing that extrinsic scattering from dynamic sources is the dominant microscopic mechanism. These findings underscore the efficacy of symmetry-based investigations in understanding and predicting non-linear transport phenomena, with potential applications in spintronics and energy harvesting.


---
# Triplons, triplon pairs and dynamical symmetries in laser-driven Shastry-Sutherland magnets

## 激光驱动的Shastry-Sutherland磁体中的三重子，三重子对和动力学对称性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.03691

arXiv:2407.03691v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: In frustrated magnets, a variety of novel phenomena arise due to their peculiar magnetic states, whose excitations usually reside in the GHz to THz range. Intense THz lasers, therefore, lead to examining nonlinear optical effects in such magnets. Employing an unbiased numerical method, we calculate the laser-pulse driven harmonic spectra of the Shastry-Sutherland magnets, which is well known as the model of a quantum frustrated magnet $SrCu_2(BO_3)_2$. As a result, nonlinear responses of triplons and a two-triplon bound state are observed through the Zeeman or magnetoelectric couplings between the laser and the electron spin. Furthermore, we find that one can obtain information on magnetic anisotropy and symmetry from the spectra by manipulating external fields or two-color lasers. Our results indicate that laser-driven harmonic spectra are useful as a probe of less-detectable quantum many-body states in frustrated magnets.


---
# Ising-type quantum spin liquid state in PrMgAl$_{11}$O$_{19}$

## PrMgAl中的伊辛型量子自旋液态 $_{ 11}$ O $_{ 19}$

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.11167

arXiv:2407.11167v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We have grown single crystals of PrMgAl$_{11}$O$_{19}$, an ideal triangular-lattice antiferromagnet, and performed magnetic susceptibility, specific heat and thermal conductivity measurements at low temperatures. The main results are as follows: (i) The temperature-dependent susceptibility shows a negligible in-plane response and the isothermal magnetization curves confirm the easy axis along the $c$ axis. (ii) The specific heat measurements reveal the absence of long-range magnetic order down to 60 mK, and the power-law temperature dependence indicates the existence of the gapless magnetic excitations in system. (iii) The ultralow-temperature thermal conductivity exhibits negligibly small residual term ($\kappa_0/T$) and strong spin-phonon scattering effect, suggesting that the spin excitations are also involved. Our results further demonstrate that PrMgAl$_{11}$O$_{19}$ is a rare quantum spin liquid candidate with Ising-like anisotropy.


---
# Exploring Anisotropy Contributions in Mn$_\mathrm{x}$Co$_\mathrm{1-x}$Fe$_2$O$_4$ Ferrite Nanoparticles for Biomedical Applications

## 用于生物医学应用的Mn $_\ mathrm{x}$ Co $_\ mathrm{1-x}$ Fe $_2 $ O $_4 $ 铁氧体纳米粒子中各向异性贡献的探讨

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.03736

arXiv:2409.03736v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Designing well-defined magnetic nanomaterials is crucial for various applications and it demands a comprehensive understanding of their magnetic properties at the microscopic level. In this study, we investigate the contributions to the total anisotropy of Mn-Co mixed spinel nanoparticles. By employing neutron measurements sensitive to the spatially resolved surface anisotropy with sub-\AA\space resolution, we reveal an additional contribution to the anisotropy constant arising from shape anisotropy and interparticle interactions. Our findings shed light on the intricate interplay between chemical composition, microstructure, morphology, and surface effects, providing valuable insights for the design of advanced magnetic nanomaterials for AC biomedical applications, such as cancer treatment by magnetic fluid hyperthermia.


---
# Finite-temperature quantum field theory of Casimir forces

## 卡西米尔力的有限温量子场论

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.14450

arXiv:2409.14450v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We present a quantum theory of Casimir forces between perfect electrical conductors, based on quantum electrodynamics and quantum statistical physics. This theory utilizes Kapusta's finite-temperature quantum field theory, combined with the Faddeev-Popov ghost formalism. This approach allows us to calculate Casimir forces at finite temperatures, providing both previously known and new physical insights from a unified perspective. Furthermore, our method enables us to compute the stress tensor associated with Casimir forces, in accordance with the Helmholtz free energy of an equilibrium quantum electromagnetic field. Using this methodology, we calculate the excess surface tension on the walls of slit-like pores due to the Casimir effect.


---
# Multipartite Entanglement in Crossing the Quantum Critical Point

## 跨越量子临界点的多体纠缠

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2202.07892

arXiv:2202.07892v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: We investigate the multipartite entanglement for a slow quantum quench crossing a critical point. We consider the quantum Ising model and the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model, which are local and full-connected quantum systems, respectively. The multipartite entanglement is quantified by quantum Fisher information with the generator defined as the operator of the ferromagnetic order parameter. The quench dynamics begins with a ground state in a paramagnetic phase, and then the transverse field is driven slowly to cross a quantum critical point, and ends with a zero transverse field. For the quantum Ising model, based on methods of matrix product states, we calculate the quantum Fisher information density of the final state. Numerical results of both linear and nonlinear quenches show that the quantum Fisher information density of the final state scales as a power law of the quench rate, which overall conforms to the prediction of the Kibble-Zurek mechanism with a small correction. We show that this correction results from the long-range behaviors. We also calculate the quantum Fisher information density in the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model. The results show that the scaling of quantum Fisher information in this full-connected system conforms to the Kibble-Zurek mechanism better, since the long-range physics cannot be defined in this nonlocal system. Our results reveal that the multipartite entanglement provides an alternative viewpoint to understand the dynamics of quantum phase transitions, specifically, the nontrivial long-range physics.


---
# Adiabatic sheath model for beam-driven blowout plasma channels

## 束驱动爆裂等离子体通道的绝热鞘层模型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14668

arXiv:2411.14668v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: In plasma wakefield accelerators, the structure of the blowout sheath is vital for the blowout radius and the electromagnetic field distribution inside the blowout. Previous theories assume artificial distribution functions for the sheath, which are either inaccurate or require prior knowledge of parameters. In this study, we develop an adiabatic sheath model based on force balancing, which leads to a self-consistent form of the sheath distribution. This model gives a better estimate of the blowout channel balancing radius than previous models.


---
# 2D Semiconductors Superlattices as Hyperbolic Materials

## 作为双曲材料的2D半导体超晶格

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14785

arXiv:2411.14785v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Hyperbolic materials are natural or engineered artificial structures that provide means to manipulate and control electromagnetic radiation, leading to a variety of strong light-matter interactions at the nanoscale. In this work, we explore the physical properties of the optical response of 2D semiconductor-based superlattices, which are engineered with atomic precision and composed of alternating 2D semiconductor monolayers and hexagonal-boron-nitride. We find that such superlattices exhibit a robust hyperbolic response at the visible to near-infrared spectrum, and with dimensions that are an order of magnitude smaller compared to conventional metal-based hyperbolic metamaterials, down to three active monolayers. By employing both analytical and numerical studies, we show that by varying the superlattice configuration we can control and manipulate the nature of the hyperbolic response. Finaly, we propose an optimal structure that will enable the experimental observation of this hyperbolic response in 2D semiconductors superlattices. Such highly compact hyperbolic materials of atomic precision could open the way for deep-subwavelength optoelectronic devices with extremely small footprint.


---
# Spin structure of diatomic van der Waal molecules of alkali atoms

## 碱金属双原子范德华分子的自旋结构

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14787

arXiv:2411.14787v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We theoretically investigate the spin structure of weakly bound diatomic van der Waals molecules formed by two identical bosonic alkali atoms. Our studies were performed using known Born-Oppenheimer potentials while developing a reduced interaction potential model. Such reduced potential models are currently a key for solving certain classes of few-body problems of atoms as they decrease the numerical burden on the computation. Although the reduced potentials are significantly shallower than actual Born-Oppenheimer potentials, they still capture the main properties of the near-threshold bound states, including their spin structure, and the scattering states over a broad range of magnetic fields. At zero magnetic field, we find that the variation in spin structure across different alkali species originates from the interplay between electronic spin exchange and hyperfine interactions. To characterize this competition we introduce a single parameter, which is a function of the singlet and triplet scattering lengths, the atomic hyperfine splitting constant, and the molecular binding energy. We show that this parameter can be used to classify the spin structure of vdW molecules for each atomic species.


---
# Time Interfaces in Nanoplasma-Switched Wire Media

## 纳米等离子体开关线介质中的时间接口

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14805

arXiv:2411.14805v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: In this work, we consider instantaneous transitions of an infinitely extended uniaxial dielectric into a wire medium (WM) of continuous infinitely long conducting wires. Due to the strong spatial dispersion in the WM the known (Morgenthaler's) theory of temporal discontinuities is not applicable. We solve this problem analytically in time domain. We show that a transverse electromagnetic (TM) plane wave transforms into four waves: a pair of TM waves and a pair of transverse electromagnetic waves. This way, the power flow splits into two different directions, with one of them along the wires. Such a transition can possibly be achieved by nanoplasma discharges in the gaps of the split wires, initiated by an external voltage source applied to the wire and transforming the split wires forming the uniaxial dielectric into continuous ones.


---
# A detailed investigation of particle energisation mechanisms in models of collapsing magnetic traps

## 在坍塌的磁陷阱模型中对粒子激励机制的详细研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14881

arXiv:2411.14881v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: In this paper we provide a detailed investigation of the energisation processes in two-dimensional, two and a half-dimensional and three-dimensional collapsing magnetic trap models. Using kinematic magnetohydrodynamic models of collapsing magnetic traps, we examine the importance of Fermi acceleration in comparison with betatron acceleration in these models. We extend previous work by investigating particle orbits in two-dimensional models without and with a guide field component and from full three-dimensional models. We compare the outcomes for the different models and how they depend on the chosen initial conditions. While in the literature betatron acceleration has been emphasised as the major mechanism for particle energisation in collapsing magnetic traps, we find that Fermi acceleration can play a significant role as well for particle orbits with suitable initial conditions.


---
# The spinorial ball (II): a manipulable qubit at human scale

## 自旋球 (II): 人类规模的可操纵量子位

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.15059

arXiv:2411.15059v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: The spinorial ball is an electronic manipulable device that we recently introduced to discuss the origin of spin-1/2 from rotations group representation, without relying on the quantum mechanics framework. Nevertheless, it is also a macroscopic visualization of a quantum two-level system, and can thus be used to gain intuition on some generic features of qubits. The present article therefore aims to complement and extend our previous work by discussing how the spinorial ball can be used to visualize quantum mechanics features. The Bloch sphere, the Hopf fibration and the Berry phase can for instance easily be seen and manipulated using this original device. We also discuss how the spinorial ball can be used to visualize Hamiltonian evolution, and we describe an explicit mapping between the ball's motion and the evolution of 1/2-spin in arbitrary magnetic field. An electronic implementation of projective measurement that matches the predictions of quantum mechanics is also proposed. The present article is written as a practical guide to manipulate the ball and establishes the exact correspondence between the spinorial ball and a generic two-level system.


---
# A Kalman Filter for track reconstruction in very large time projection chambers

## 用于在超长时间投影室中重建轨道的卡尔曼滤波器

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.08614

arXiv:2404.08614v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: This study introduces a Kalman Filter tailored for homogeneous gas Time Projection Chambers (TPCs), adapted from the algorithm utilized by the ALICE experiment. In order to describe semi-circular paths in the plane perpendicular to the magnetic field, we introduce a novel mirror rotation technique into the Kalman Filter algorithm, enabling effective tracking of trajectories of varying lengths, including those with multiple circular paths within the detector, also known as "loopers". Demonstrated relative improvements of up to 80% in electron momentum resolution and up to 50% in muon and pion momentum resolution underscore the significance of this enhancement. Significant improvements in the reconstruction efficiency for relatively short low momentum "looper" tracks are also shown. Such advancements hold promise not only for the future of the ALICE TPC but also for neutrino high-pressure gas TPCs, where loopers become significant owing to the randomness of production points and their relatively low energies in neutrino interactions. In particular, an improvement in low energy electron reconstruction, for which the production of "looping" tracks is likely and the impact of the new algorithm is directly demonstrated, could significantly impact the quality of flux determination, which in accelerator neutrino experiments relies on the measurement of $\nu_e$ electron scatterings.


---
# Electromagnetic stress-energy tensor is a direct consequence of 3- and 6-dimensional left-and right-helical representations of the Lorentz group

## 电磁应力能张量是洛伦兹群的3维和6维左右螺旋表示的直接结果

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.05008

arXiv:2411.05008v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We review 3-d reducible representation of the Lorentz group and introduce a 6-d irreducible representation tailored for transforming 6-d electromagnetic vector, and we show that the mixture of the density matrices associated with the left- and right-helical states is equivalent to the electromagnetic stress-energy tensor.


---
# A Phase-Space Electronic Hamiltonian for Molecules in a Static Magnetic Field I: Conservation of Total Pseudomomentum and Angular Momentum

## 静态磁场中分子的相空间电子哈密顿量I: 总伪网膜和角动量的守恒

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13866

arXiv:2411.13866v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We develop a phase-space electronic structure theory of molecules in magnetic fields. For a system of electrons in a magnetic field with vector potential $\bf{A}(\hat{\bf{r}})$, the usual Born-Oppenheimer Hamiltonian is the sum of the nuclear kinetic energy and the electronic Hamiltonian, $\frac{(\bf{P} - q\bf{A}(\bf{X}) )^2}{2M} + \hat{H}_{e}(\bf{X})$ (where $q$ is a nuclear charge). To include the effects of coupled nuclear-electron motion in the presence of magnetic field, we propose that the proper phase-space electronic structure Hamiltonian will be of the form $\frac{(\bf{P} - q^{\textit{eff}}\bf{A}(\bf{X}) - e\hat{\bf{\Gamma}})^2}{2M} + \hat{H}_{e}(\bf{X})$. Here, $q^{\textit{eff}}$ represents the {\em screened} nuclear charges and the $\hat{\bf{\Gamma}}$ term captures the local pseudomomentum of the electrons. This form reproduces exactly the energy levels for a hydrogen atom in a magnetic field; moreover, single-surface dynamics along the eigenstates is guaranteed to conserve both the total pseudomomentum as well as the total angular momentum in the direction of the magnetic field. This Hamiltonian form can be immediately implemented within modern electronic structure packages (where the electronic orbitals will now depend on nuclear position ($\bf{X}$) and nuclear momentum ($\bf{P}$)). One can expect to find novel beyond Born-Oppenheimer magnetic field effects for strong enough fields and/or nonadiabatic systems.


---
# A Phase-Space Electronic Hamiltonian for Molecules in a Static Magnetic Field II: Quantum Chemistry Calculations with Gauge Invariant Atomic Orbitals

## 静磁场中分子的相空间电子哈密顿量II: 具有规范不变原子轨道的量子化学计算

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13879

arXiv:2411.13879v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: In a companion paper, we have developed a phase-space electronic structure theory of molecules in magnetic fields, whereby the electronic energy levels arise from diagonalizing a phase-space Hamiltonian $\hat H_{PS}(\bf{X},\bf{\Pi})$ that depends parametrically on nuclear position and momentum. The resulting eigenvalues are translationally invariant; moreover, if the magnetic field is in the $z-$direction, then the eigenvalues are also invariant to rotations around the $z-$direction. However, like all Hamiltonians in a magnetic field, the theory has a gauge degree of freedom (corresponding to the position of the magnetic origin in the vector potential), and requires either $(i)$ formally, a complete set of electronic states or $(ii)$ in practice, gauge invariant atomic orbitals (GIAOs) in order to realize such translational and rotational invariance. Here we describe how to implement a phase-space electronic Hamiltonian using GIAOs within a practical electronic structure package (in our case, Q-Chem). We further show that novel phenomena can be observed with finite $\bf{B}-$fields, including minimum energy structures with $\bf{\Pi}_{min} \ne 0$, indicating non-zero electronic motion in the ground-state.

