# Strong interlayer magnetic exchange coupling in La<sub>3</sub>Ni<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7−<em>δ</em></sub> revealed by inelastic neutron scattering

## 非弹性中子散射揭示的La&lt;sub&gt;3&lt;/sub&gt;Ni&lt;sub&gt;2&lt;/sub&gt;O&lt;sub&gt;7-&lt;em&gt;δ&lt;/em&gt;&lt;/sub&gt; 中的强层间磁交换耦合

Link: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2095927324005164?dgcid=rss_sd_all

<p>Publication date: 30 October 2024</p><p><b>Source:</b> Science Bulletin, Volume 69, Issue 20</p><p>Author(s): Tao Xie, Mengwu Huo, Xiaosheng Ni, Feiran Shen, Xing Huang, Hualei Sun, Helen C. Walker, Devashibhai Adroja, Dehong Yu, Bing Shen, Lunhua He, Kun Cao, Meng Wang</p>


---
# Topological surface states in quasi-two-dimensional magnetic kagome metal EuTi<sub>3</sub>Bi<sub>4</sub>

## 准二维磁性kagome金属EuTi&lt;sub&gt;3&lt;/sub&gt;Bi&lt;sub&gt;4&lt;/sub&gt; 中的拓扑表面态

Link: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2095927324005966?dgcid=rss_sd_all

<p>Publication date: 30 October 2024</p><p><b>Source:</b> Science Bulletin, Volume 69, Issue 20</p><p>Author(s): Zhicheng Jiang, Tongrui Li, Jian Yuan, Zhengtai Liu, Zhipeng Cao, Soohyun Cho, Mingfang Shu, Yichen Yang, Zhikai Li, Jiayu Liu, Jianyang Ding, Zhonghao Liu, Jishan Liu, Jie Ma, Zhe Sun, Xiangang Wan, Yanfeng Guo, Dawei Shen, Donglai Feng</p>


---
# Digital logic from high-efficiency superconducting diodes

## 高效超导二极管的数字逻辑

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23352

arXiv:2410.23352v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Recent advancements in the realizations of superconducting diodes have pushed the diode coefficient $\eta$ towards its theoretical maximum of $\eta=1$. In this work, we describe the construction of logic gates NOT, AND, OR, NAND and NOR using superconducting diodes with $\eta\approx1$ by exploiting their dynamically tunable polarity. We then argue that fundamental theorems suppress $\eta$ in intrinsic superconductors, rendering them likely unsuitable for the proposed devices, and point out that several previous proposals and platforms, remarkably, bypassed this suppression unwittingly. We discuss the realization of the digital logic in one such platform -- Josephson triodes that yielded $\eta\approx1$ -- and argue that phases with spontaneous spatial or magnetic order can overcome some of its drawbacks. Thus, this work provides guiding principles for future platforms and develops the building blocks for superconductors-based digital electronics.


---
# From explicit to spontaneous charge order and the fate of antiferromagnetic quantum Hall state

## 从显式到自发电荷序和反铁磁量子霍尔态的命运

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23367

arXiv:2410.23367v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The antiferromagnetic quantum Hall insulator (AFQHI) where one of the spin components is in the quantum Hall state and the other in the trivial state is an established phase emerging as a result of the Hubbard repulsion in spinful quantum Hall systems. The stabilization of the AFQHI requires a charge order preventing the effect of the spin-flip transformation on the electronic state to be compensated by a space group operation, and is often induced via an ionic potential. While one would naively expect the nearest-neighbor (NN) density-density interaction favoring spontaneous charge order to result in qualitatively similar phenomena an analysis of the Haldane-Hubbard model extended by the NN interaction finds no AFQHI. Here, by considering an extended version of the Harper-Hofstadter-Hubbard model we go beyond the honeycomb structure and show that the realization of the AFQHI generically requires an explicit charge order and cannot be emerged through a spontaneous charge order. We unveil how the AFQHI disappears upon approaching from the explicit to the spontaneous charge ordering limit. Our findings shine more light on the stabilization conditions of the AFQHI which can guide the future optical lattice experiments searching for this intriguing magnetic topological insulator phase.


---
# Quantum Sensing of Broadband Spin Dynamics and Magnon Transport in Antiferromagnets

## 反铁磁体中宽带自旋动力学和磁振子输运的量子传感

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23421

arXiv:2410.23421v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Optical detection of magnetic resonance using quantum spin sensors (QSS) provides a spatially local and sensitive technique to probe spin dynamics in magnets. However, its utility as a probe of antiferromagnetic resonance (AFMR), wherein the characteristic resonant frequencies substantially exceed the QSS probing frequency, remains an open question. Here, using the nitrogen-vacancy center in diamond as a QSS, we report the first experimental demonstration of optically detected AFMR in layered van der Waals antiferromagnets up to frequencies of 24 GHz, significantly higher than the sensor's spin resonance frequency of 2.87 GHz. To achieve this, we leverage the enhancement of the QSS spin relaxation rate due to low-frequency magnetic field fluctuations that arise from collective late-time dynamics of finite-wavevector magnons excited by the driven uniform AFMR mode. Using optically detected AFMR, we first characterize the temperature and magnetic field dependence on the AFMR modes, which shed light on the intrinsic exchange fields and magnetic anisotropies. Second, we exploit the highly localized sensitivity of the QSS to demonstrate efficient magnon transport over tens of micrometers. Finally, we find that optical detection efficiency in fact increases with increasing frequency, enabling broadband detection of magnetization dynamics. Our work showcases the dual capabilities of QSS as detectors of both high frequency magnetization dynamics and magnon transport, paving the way for understanding and controlling magnetism in Neel states in antiferromagnets.


---
# Charge density waves and pinning by lattice anisotropy in 214 cuprates

## 214铜酸盐中的电荷密度波和晶格各向异性钉扎

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23468

arXiv:2410.23468v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The detection of static charge density waves (CDWs) in La$_{2-x}$Sr$_x$CuO$_4$ (LSCO) with x $\sim$ 0.12 at relatively high temperatures has raised the question of what lattice feature pins the CDWs. Some recent structural studies have concluded that some form of monoclinic distortion, indicated by the appearance of certain weak Bragg peaks (type M peaks) at otherwise forbidden positions, are responsible for CDW pinning. As a test of this idea, we present neutron diffraction results for a single crystal of La$_{2-x}$Ba$_x$CuO$_4$ (LBCO) with x = 1/8, which is known to undergo two structural transitions on cooling, from high-temperature tetragonal (HTT) to low-temperature orthorhombic (LTO) near 240 K, involving a collective tilt pattern of the corner-sharing CuO$_6$ octahedra, and from LTO to low temperature tetragonal (LTT) near 56 K, involving a new tilt pattern and the appearance of intensity at peaks of type T. We observe both type M and type T peaks in the LTT phase, while the type M peaks (but not type T) are still present in the LTO phase. Given that CDW order is observed only in the LTT phase of LBCO, it is apparent that the in-plane Cu-O bond anisotropy associated with the octahedral tilt pattern is responsible for charge pinning. We point out that evidence for a similar, but weaker, bond anisotropy has been observed previously in LSCO and should be responsible for CDW pinning there. In the case of LBCO, the monoclinic distortion may help to explain previously-reported magneto-optical evidence for gyrotropic order.


---
# Orbital-spin Locking and its Optical Signatures in Altermagnets

## 轨道自旋锁定及其在高磁中的光学特征

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23513

arXiv:2410.23513v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Altermagnets, magnetic materials with zero magnetization and spin-split band structure, have gained tremendous attention recently for their rich physics and potential applications. Here, we report on a microscopic tight-binding model that unveils a unique coupling between orbitals and spins in $d$-wave altermagnets which gives rise to momentum-dependent and spin-selective optical absorption. This coupling promotes the controlled optical excitation of up or down spins depending on the polarization direction of linearly polarized light. Such an effect originates from the coupling of orbitals to the sublattice degree of freedom through the crystal field, which is then coupled to spins through the antiferromagnetic interaction. Our crystal field analysis, which is general to any type of altermagnet, helps understand the onset of altermagnetism from a microscopic point of view, and we use our results to propose clear magneto-optical signatures of our predictions. Our findings shine light on the interplay between orbitals and spins in altermagnets, thus paving the way towards novel orbitronic and opto-spintronic devices.


---
# Specific heat of Gd$^{3+}$- and Eu$^{2+}$-based magnetic compounds

## Gd $^{ 3 }$-和Eu $^{ 2 }$ 基磁性化合物的比热

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23519

arXiv:2410.23519v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We have studied theoretically the specific heat of a large number of non-frustrated magnetic structures described by the Heisenberg model for systems with total angular momentum $J=7/2$, which corresponds to the 4f$^7$ configuration of Gd$^{+3}$ and Eu$^{+2}$. For a given critical temperature (controlled by the magnitude of the exchange interactions) we find that to a large accuracy, the specific heat is controlled by two parameters: the effective number of neighbors (which controls the importance of quantum fluctuations) and the axial anisotropy. Using these two parameters we fit the specific heat of four Gd compounds and two Eu compounds obtaining a remarkable agreement. Another Gd compound has been fitted previously. Our work opens the possibility of describing the specific heat of non-frustrated 4f$^7$ systems within a general framework.


---
# Physics Origin of Universal Unusual Magnetoresistance

## 普遍不寻常磁阻的物理起源

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23543

arXiv:2410.23543v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The discovery of the unusual magnetoresistance (UMR) during the rotation of magnetization in the plane perpendicular to the electric current, which has been typically attributed to magnetization-dependent interfacial reflection of spin current, has brought remarkable impacts on the understanding and application of a variety of spintronic phenomena. Here, we report that giant UMR occurs also in single-layer magnetic metals and exhibits high-order contributions and a universal sum rule, which agree well with the physics origin of the recently proposed two-vector magnetoresistance that simply considers electron scattering by the magnetization vector and interfacial electric field, without the need for any relevance to spin current. Revisiting of the literature data reveals that the most representative data that were used to claim spin Hall magnetoresistance or other magnetoresistances related or unrelated to spin current can be understood unifiedly by the two-vector MR theory. Experimental and theoretical results against spin-current-related magnetoresistances, but not the two-vector magnetoresistance, are discussed.


---
# Nonlinear edge transport in a quantum Hall system

## 量子霍尔系统中的非线性边缘传输

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23548

arXiv:2410.23548v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Nonlinear transport phenomena in condensed matter reflect the geometric nature, quantum coherence, and many-body correlation of electronic states. Electric currents in solids are classified into (i) Ohmic current, (ii) supercurrent, and (iii) geometric or topological current. While the nonlinear current-voltage $(I$-$V)$ characteristics of the former two categories have been extensive research topics recently, those of the last category remains unexplored. Among them, the quantum Hall current is a representative example. Realized in two-dimensional electronic systems under a strong magnetic field, the topological protection quantizes the Hall conductance in the unit of $e^2/h$ ($e$: elementary charge, $h$: Planck constant), of which the edge transport picture gives a good account. Here, we theoretically study the nonlinear $I$-$V_\text{H}$ characteristic of the edge transport up to third order in $V_\text{H}$. We find that nonlinearity arises in the Hall response from electron-electron interaction between the counterpropagating edge channels with the nonlinear energy dispersions. We also discuss possible experimental observations.


---
# Two-dimensional topological Anderson insulator in a HgTe-based semimetal

## 基于HgTe的半金属中的二维拓扑安德森绝缘体

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23564

arXiv:2410.23564v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: In strongly disordered HgTe quantum wells with a semimetallic spectrum we have experimentally discovered Anderson localization of two-dimensional (2D) electrons and holes in the bulk of the quantum well, exhibiting an exponentially strong increase in resistance as the temperature decreases. Conversely, for the one-dimensional (1D) edge current states we observed a very weak temperature dependence of the resistance, indicating the absence of localization. Initially the system is a bulk conductor, but a strong disorder opens the mobility gap in the bulk, which leads to the formation of a 2D topological Anderson insulator (TAI) state. This state turned out to be very sensitive to the applied perpendicular to the system's plane magnetic field. Firstly, a small magnetic field of 30mT breaks the topological protection of 1D edge channels turning the system into an ordinary Anderson insulator. Secondly, the magnetic field of 0.5T delocalizes 2D bulk electrons, transitioning the system into a quantum Hall liquid.


---
# Observation of chiral domain walls in an octupole-ordered antiferromagnet

## 八极有序反铁磁体中手性畴壁的观察

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23607

arXiv:2410.23607v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Spin chirality in antiferromagnets offers new opportunities for spintronics. The kagome antiferromagnet Mn3Sn is a paradigmatic material in which the antiferromagnetic order parameter can be detected and controlled by electrical means. However, direct investigation of the magnetic texture of Mn3Sn has been challenging because of the tiny moment hosted in its magnetic octupole, hindering further clarification of this unique material. Here, we address this issue by observing the stray magnetic field from Mn3Sn using a diamond quantum scanning magnetometer. The spatially-resolved intrinsic domains and domain walls in a high-quality single-crystalline Mn3Sn film quantitatively reveal the polarization angle of the magnetic octupole in the kagome plane, the domain's local magnetization, the domain wall's width and chirality, and the octupole order in domain walls. Our nanoscale investigation of Mn3Sn, a powerful complement to macroscopic measurements, paves the road for developing chiral antiferromagnetism and its potential for spintronic applications.


---
# Ferroelectric terpolymer films with enhanced cooling efficiency: An integrated approach considering electrocaloric response and dielectric losses

## 具有增强冷却效率的铁电三元共聚物薄膜: 考虑电热响应和介电损耗的集成方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23708

arXiv:2410.23708v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: In response to the growing demand for more efficient and compact refrigeration and energy conversion devices, electrocaloric poly(vinylidene fluoride-trifluoroethylene-chlorofluoroethylene) is among the most promising active substances. However, despite its high electrocaloric response, the maximum efficiency achievable over a cooling cycle is hampered by losses. To overcome this major limitation, losses have been reduced by using an electrothermal poling treatment as well as by controlling the surface roughness. The upper bound of the efficiency computed over a thermodynamic cycle mimicking the working conditions of an actual cooling device is increased from 1% to 10% of the Carnot efficiency. This represents a major improvement in enhancing ferroelectric materials for advanced energy applications.


---
# Spin polarization of the two-dimensional electron gas at the EuO/SrTiO$_3$ interface

## EuO/SrTiO $_3 $ 界面上二维电子气的自旋极化

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23804

arXiv:2410.23804v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Spin-polarized two-dimensional electron gases (2DEGs) are of particular interest for functional oxide electronics applications. The redox-created 2DEG residing on the strontium titanate, SrTiO$_3$ (STO), side of a europium monoxide (EuO)/SrTiO$_3$ (001) interface is expected to be significantly spin-polarized due to the proximity to the strong ($7\,\mu_B/f.u.$) Heisenberg ferromagnet EuO. We apply magnetic circular dichroism in the angular distribution (MCDAD) of photoemitted electrons to investigate whether and how the induced spin polarization of the 2DEG depends on the dimensionality of the overlaying EuO layer. The experimental data are complemented by density functional theory calculations with Hubbard $U$ term (DFT+$U$). We show that the EuO/STO interfacial 2DEG is spin-polarized even for ultrathin EuO overlayers, starting at an EuO threshold thickness of only two monolayers. Additional EuO monolayers even increase the induced magnetic Ti moment and thus the spin polarization of the 2DEG. Our results and the potential to enhance the magnetic order of EuO by other proximity effects [1] indicate that the EuO/STO (001) interface is an ideal template for creating (multi-)functional spin-polarized 2DEGs for application in oxide electronics.


---
# Pressure-dependent magnetotransport measurement in Kagome metal Yb$_{0.5}$Co_3Ge$_3$

## Kagome金属Yb的压力相关磁输运测量 $_{ 0.5}$ Co_3Ge $_3 $

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23872

arXiv:2410.23872v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Kagome materials are known to be an ideal platform that hosts a plethora of interesting phases such as topological states, electronic correlation, and magnetism, owing to their unique band structure and geometry. We report magnetotransport measurement in Kagome metal Yb$_{0.5}$Co_3Ge$_3$ as a function of pressure. Below $\sim25^\circ$ K the temperature dependence of resistance shows an upturn that is accompanied by a strong negative magnetoresistance, which could be attributed to Kondo effect. Upon pressurization above 1 GPa the resistance shows a reduction as a function of temperature below $4^\circ$ K, along with a further enhanced negative magnetoresistance. This might indicate an onset of a pressure-induced Kondo coherence effect.


---
# Magnetic proximity effect in biphenylene monolayer from first-principles

## 第一性原理在亚联苯基单层中的磁邻近效应

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24025

arXiv:2410.24025v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: On-surface chemistry has emerged as a key technique for designing novel low-dimensional materials, enabling precise manipulation of their electronic and magnetic properties at the atomic scale. It also proves highly effective for the fabrication of heterostructures. Leveraging these benefits, herein, we perform a first principles study of the magnetic proximity effect (MPE) in a heterostructure formed by a monolayer of the two-dimensional carbon allotrope biphenylene network (BPN) deposited on the surface of the above-room-temperature ferrimagnet yttrium iron garnet (YIG). Our results reveal strong hybridization between BPN orbitals and YIG surface states, resulting in non-homogeneous electron transfer and robust MPE. The proposed methodology accurately describes YIG magnetic interactions, allowing us to study the tuning effects of BPN on the magnetic properties of the substrate for the first time. Additionally, we explore the impact of van der Waals (vdW) distance at the interface, finding enhanced spin splitting up to 30% under external pressure. These findings highlight a promising strategy for inducing spin polarization in BPN without chemical modifications, opening new possibilities for BPN-based spintronic devices through the creation of heterostructures with magnetic materials.


---
# Injection locking in DC-driven spintronic vortex oscillators via surface acoustic wave modulation

## 通过表面声波调制在直流驱动的自旋电子涡旋振荡器中进行注入锁定

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24045

arXiv:2410.24045v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Control of the microwave signal generated by spin-transfer torque oscillators (STOs) is crucial for their applications in spin wave generation and neuromorphic computing. This study investigates injection locking of a DC-driven vortex STO using surface acoustic waves (SAWs) to enhance the STO's signal and allow for its synchronization with external inputs. We employ a simplified model based on Thiele's formalism and highlight the role of vortex deformations in achieving injection locking. Micromagnetic simulations are conducted to validate our theoretical predictions, revealing how the locking bandwidth depends on SAW amplitude, as well as on the amplitude and direction of an applied external field. Our findings are pivotal for advancing experimental research and developing efficient low-power synchronization methods for large-scale STO networks.


---
# Topological phase transition and its stability against an applied magnetic field in a class of low dimensional decorated lattices

## 一类低维装饰晶格的拓扑相变及其对外加磁场的稳定性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24146

arXiv:2410.24146v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The possibility of topological phase transition with or without a magnetic flux trapped in the cells of a class of decorated lattices is explored in details.Using a tight binding Hamiltonian and a real space decimation scheme we analytically obtain the non-dispersive and dispersive energy bands, and exactly locate the eigenvalues at which energy gaps close.We find that despite the local breaking of the time reversal symmetry, as a magnetic field is turned on, the topological invariant exhibits quantization, and a clear appearance of edge localized modes is observed exactly at the gap-closing energy eigenvalues in the topologically non-trivial insulating phase.The bulk boundary correspondence is obeyed. The protection of the edge states by a chiral symmetry is confirmed for both the presence and absence of magnetic flux. Our studies have been extended to other kinds of decorated lattices where topological phase transition is possible only above a threshold value of the hopping integral describing these lattice. Our results are analytically exact.


---
# Entropy alternatives for equilibrium and out of equilibrium systems

## 平衡和非平衡系统的熵替代方案

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24186

arXiv:2410.24186v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We propose an entropy-related function (non-repeatability) that describes dynamical behaviors in complex systems. A normalized version of this function (mutability) has been previously used in statistical physics. To illustrate their characteristics, we apply these functions to different systems: (a) magnetic moments on a square lattice and (b) real seismic data extracted from the IPOC-2007-2014 catalog. These systems are well-established in the literature, making them suitable benchmarks for testing the new approach. Shannon entropy is used as a reference to facilitate comparison, enabling us to highlight similarities, differences, and the potential benefits of the new measure. Notably, non-repeatability and mutability are sensitive to the order in which the data sequence is collected, distinguishing them from traditional entropy measures.


---
# Topologically protected Bell-cat states in a simple spin model

## 在简单的自旋模型中受拓扑保护的Bell-cat状态

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23532

arXiv:2410.23532v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We consider the topological properties of the so-called central spin model that consists of $N$ identical spins coupled to a single distinguishable central spin which arises in physical systems such as circuit-QED and bosonic Josephson junctions coupled to an impurity atom. The model closely corresponds to the Su-Schrieffer-Heeger (SSH) model except that the chain of sites in the SSH model is replaced by a chain of states in Fock space specifying the magnetization. We find that the model accommodates topologically protected eigenstates that are `Bell-cat' states consisting of a Schr\"{o}dinger cat state of the $N$ spins that is maximally entangled with the central spin, and show how this state can be adiabatically created and moved along the chain by driving the central spin. We visualize the Bell-cat states by plotting their Wigner function and also show their robustness against random noise by solving the master equation for the density matrix.


---
# Distinguishing Ion Dynamics from Muon Diffusion in Muon Spin Relaxation II -- Extension to Paramagnetic Muons

## 区分离子动力学与 μ 子自旋弛豫中的 μ 子扩散II-扩展到顺磁 μ 子

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23575

arXiv:2410.23575v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We extend the previously published model that distinguishes between the diffusive motion of diamagnetic muons and the dynamics of ions around the muon in matter, and propose a generalized model for {\sl paramagnetic muons} (Mu$^0$s, bound states of a muon and an unpaired electron) observed in non-metallic host materials. The new model distinguishes among the independent motion of unpaired electron associated with Mu$^0$, the self-diffusive motion of Mu$^0$ as single atomic entity, and that of the ions surrounding Mu$^0$, where the muon spin relaxation is induced by dynamical fluctuations of the hyperfine (HF) field exerted from the unpaired electron (e.g., due to spin/charge exchange reaction) and/or that of the nuclear hyperfine (NHF) interactions between the unpaired electron and the surrounding ions. We have applied this model to the muonated radicals (Mu$^0$s in a polaron state) in conducting polymers, and examined the validity of the interpretations claimed in the earlier literature that the spin relaxation is induced by quasi-one dimensional motion of the unpaired electron. The result suggests that experimental support for such a claim is still inadequate and needs to be reexamined, including the possibility of other origins for the fluctuations. It is expected that our model will prove a useful guide for $\mu$SR studies of various local dynamics involving paramagnetic muon states.


---
# Quantum thermal machine regimes in the transverse-field Ising model

## 横向场Ising模型中的量子热机状态

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23710

arXiv:2410.23710v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We identify and interpret the possible quantum thermal machine regimes with a transverse-field Ising model as the working substance. In general, understanding the emergence of such regimes in a many-body quantum system is challenging due to the dependence on the many energy levels in the system. By considering infinitesimal work strokes, we can understand the operation from equilibrium properties of the system. We find that infinitesimal work strokes enable both heat engine and accelerator operation, with the output and boundaries of operation described by macroscopic properties of the system, in particular the net transverse magnetization. At low temperatures, the regimes of operation and performance can be understood from quasiparticles in the system, while at high temperatures an expansion of the free energy in powers of inverse temperature describes the operation. The understanding generalises to larger work strokes when the temperature difference between the hot and cold reservoirs is large. For hot and cold reservoirs close in temperature, a sufficiently large work stroke can enable refrigerator and heater regimes. Our results and method of analysis will prove useful in understanding the possible regimes of operation of quantum many-body thermal machines more generally.


---
# Hall Transport of Charged Particles in Magnetic Disk Array

## 磁盘阵列中带电粒子的霍尔输运

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23930

arXiv:2410.23930v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: The concept of periodic structures has driven the development of advanced materials like photonic and phononic crystals. These metamaterials typically rely on complex repeating units or meta-atoms, limiting their adaptability after fabrication. To overcome this limitation, we introduce the concept of metafields, which are repeating patterns of local magnetic fields instead of material structures. Unlike metamaterials, which consist of atoms arranged in structured patterns, metafields focus on the patterns of fields alone, allowing for dynamic property adjustments through external electric currents. This study explores a specific metafield where the repeating pattern is the magnetic disk (MD), defined by a uniform magnetic field perpendicular to its surface. By arranging multiple MDs, we form a magnetic disk array (MDA) and theoretically investigate the charged particle dynamics within this array. Our analysis highlights Hall transport phenomena, such as Hall diffusivity, conductivity, and thermal Hall effects. Using complex variables, we derive the collision integral and Boltzmann equation for particle distribution, applying perturbation methods and Fourier analysis to calculate transport coefficients. Simulations reveal a one-way preferential diffusion at the interface between MDAs with opposing field directions, where diffusion intensity varies with the particle movement direction. This highlights metafields' potential for dynamic particle control applications.


---
# Improving the accuracy of circuit quantization using the electromagnetic properties of superconductors

## 利用超导体的电磁特性提高电路量化的准确性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24004

arXiv:2410.24004v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Recent advances in quantum information processing with superconducting qubits have fueled a growing demand for scaling and miniaturizing circuit layouts. Despite significant progress, accurately predicting the Hamiltonian of complex circuits remains a challenging task. In this work, we propose an improved method for quantizing superconducting circuits that incorporates material- and geometry-dependent kinetic inductance. Our approach models thin superconducting films as equivalent reactive boundary elements, seamlessly integrating into the conventional circuit quantization framework without adding computational complexity. As a proof of concept, we experimentally verify our method using planar superconducting quantum devices made of 35 nm-thick disordered niobium films, known to exhibit large kinetic inductance values. We demonstrate significantly improved accuracy in predicting the Hamiltonian based solely on the chip layout and material properties of the superconducting films and Josephson junctions, with discrepancies in mode frequencies remaining below 2%. Our method enables systematic studies of superconducting devices based on disordered thin films or compact, fine-pitched elements and, more broadly, facilitates the precise engineering of superconducting quantum circuits at scale.


---
# 2D magnetic stability

## 2D磁稳定性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24156

arXiv:2410.24156v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: This article is a contribution to the proceedings of the 33rd/35th International Colloquium on Group Theoretical Methods in Physics (ICGTMP, Group33/35) held in Cotonou, Benin, July 15-19, 2024. The stability of matter is an old and mathematically difficult problem, relying both on the uncertainty principle of quantum mechanics and on the exclusion principle of quantum statistics. We consider here the stability of the self-interacting almost-bosonic anyon gas, generalizing the Gross-Pitaevskii / nonlinear Schr\"odinger energy functionals to include magnetic self interactions. We show that there is a type of supersymmetry in the model which holds only for higher values of the magnetic coupling but is broken for lower values, and that in the former case supersymmetric ground states exist precisely at even-integer quantized values of the coupling. These states constitute a manifold of explicit solitonic vortex solutions whose densities solve a generalized Liouville equation, and can be regarded as nonlinear generalizations of Landau levels. The reported work is joint with Alireza Ataei and Dinh-Thi Nguyen and makes an earlier analysis of self-dual abelian Chern-Simons-Higgs theory by Jackiw and Pi, Hagen, and others, mathematically rigorous.


---
# Density-matrix renormalization group study of Kitaev-Heisenberg model on the triangular lattice

## 三角格上kitaev-heisenberg模型的密度-矩阵重整化群研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/1512.02334

arXiv:1512.02334v4 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We study the Kitaev-Heisenberg model on the triangular lattice by using the two-dimensional density-matrix renormalization group method. Calculating the ground-state energy and spin structure factors, we obtain the ground state phase diagram of the Kitaev-Heisenberg model. As suggested by previous studies, we find a 120$^\circ$ antiferromagnetic (AFM) phase, a $\mathbb{Z}_2$-vortex crystal phase, a nematic phase, a dual $\mathbb{Z}_2$-vortex crystal phase (dual counterpart of $\mathbb{Z}_2$-vortex crystal phase), a $\mathbb{Z}_6$ ferromagnetic phase, and a dual ferromagnetic phase (dual counterpart of $\mathbb{Z}_6 $ ferromagnetic phase). Spin correlations discontinuously change at the phase boundaries because of first-order phase transitions. In the (dual) $\mathbb{Z}_6$ ferromagnetic phase, we find that the dominant spin component of the spin structure factors is different on either side of the SU(2) symmetric point, although there is no phase transition. Furthermore, we study the relation among von Neumann entanglement entropy, entanglement spectrum, and phase transitions of the model. We find that the Schmidt gap closes at the phase boundaries and thus the entanglement entropy clearly changes as well. This is different from the Kitaev-Heisenberg model on the honeycomb lattice, where the Schmidt gap and the entanglement entropy are not necessary a good measure of phase transitions.


---
# Spin waves and orbital contribution to ferromagnetism in a topological metal

## 自旋波和轨道对拓扑金属中铁磁性的贡献

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.01457

arXiv:2302.01457v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Special arrangements of atoms with more than one atom per unit cell, including honeycomb or kagome (woven bamboo mat) lattices, can host propagating excitations with non-trivial topology as defined by their evolution along closed paths in momentum space. Excitations on such lattices can also be momentum-independent, meaning that they are localized notwithstanding strong hopping of the underlying disturbances between neighbouring sites. The associated flat bands are interesting because the interactions between the heavy quasiparticles inhabiting them will become much more important than for strong dispersion, resulting in novel quantum solid and liquid states. Different stackings of two-dimensional lattices, for example twisted graphene bilayers, provide routes to further engineer topology and many-body effects. Here, we report the discovery, using circularly polarized x-rays for the unambiguous isolation of magnetic signals, of a nearly flat spin wave band and large (compared to elemental iron) orbital moment for the metallic ferromagnet Fe3Sn2, built from compact AB-stacked kagome bilayers and which has a topologically non-trivial electronic band structure controllable by modest external magnetic fields. As a function of out-of-plane momentum, the nearly flat optical mode and the global rotation symmetry-restoring acoustic mode are out of phase, consistent with a bilayer exchange coupling that is larger than the already large in-plane couplings. The defining units of this topological metal are therefore a triangular lattice of octahedral iron clusters rather than weakly coupled kagome planes. The spin waves are strongly damped when compared to elemental iron, opening the topic of interactions of topological bosons (spin waves) and fermions (electrons) with the very specific target of explaining boson lifetimes.


---
# Voltage-based magnetization switching and reading in magnetoelectric spin-orbit nanodevices

## 磁电自旋轨道纳米器件中基于电压的磁化切换和读取

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.12162

arXiv:2302.12162v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: As CMOS technologies face challenges in dimensional and voltage scaling, the demand for novel logic devices has never been greater, with spin-based devices offering scaling potential, at the cost of significantly high switching energies. Alternatively, magnetoelectric materials are predicted to enable low-power magnetization control, a solution with limited device-level results. Here, we demonstrate voltage-based magnetization switching and reading in nanodevices at room temperature, enabled by exchange coupling between multiferroic BiFeO$_3$ and ferromagnetic CoFe, for writing, and spin-to-charge current conversion between CoFe and Pt, for reading. We show that upon the electrical switching of the BiFeO$_3$, the magnetization of the CoFe can be reversed, giving rise to different voltage outputs. Through additional microscopy techniques, magnetization reversal is linked with the polarization state and antiferromagnetic cycloid propagation direction in the BiFeO$_3$. This study constitutes the building block for magnetoelectric spin-orbit logic, opening a new avenue for low-power beyond-CMOS technologies.


---
# Phenomenology of bond and flux orders in kagome metals

## kagome金属中的键序和通量序的现象学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.02528

arXiv:2307.02528v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Despite much experimental and theoretical work, the nature of the charge order in the kagome metals belonging to the family of materials AV$_3$Sb$_5$ (A=Cs,Rb,K) remains controversial. A crucial ingredient for the identification of the ordering in these materials is their response to external perturbations, such as strain or magnetic fields. To this end, we provide a comprehensive symmetry classification of the possible charge orders in kagome materials with a $2\times2$ increase of the unit cell. Motivated by the experimental reports of time-reversal-symmetry breaking and rotational anisotropy, we consider the interdependence of flux and bond orders. Deriving the relevant Landau free energy for possible orders, we study the effect of symmetry-breaking perturbations such as strain and magnetic fields. Our results, thus, provide a roadmap for future tests of these intricate orders.


---
# Thermal Hall conductivity of a valence bond solid phase in the square lattice $J_1$-$J_2$ antiferromagnet Heisenberg model with a Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction

## 方格 $ J_1 $-$ J_2 $ 反铁磁体Heisenberg模型中具有dzyaloshinskii-moriya相互作用的价键固相的热霍尔电导率

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.12563

arXiv:2311.12563v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We calculate the thermal Hall conductivity $\kappa_{xy}$ for the columnar valence-bond solid phase of a two-dimensional frustrated antiferromagnet. In particular, we consider the square lattice spin-$1/2$ $J_1$-$J_2$ antiferromagnetic Heisenberg model with an additional Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction between the spins and in the presence of an external magnetic field. We concentrate on the intermediate parameter region of the $J_1$-$J_2$ model, where a quantum paramagnetic phase is stable, and consider a Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya vector pattern associated with the couplings between the spins in the CuO$_2$ planes of the YBCO compound. We describe the columnar valence-bond solid phase within the bond-operator formalism, which allows us to map the Heisenberg model into an effective interacting boson model written in terms of triplet operators. The effective boson model is studied within the harmonic approximation and the triplon excitation bands of the columnar valence-bond solid phase is determined. We then calculate the Berry curvature and the Chern numbers of the triplon excitation bands and, finally, determine the thermal Hall conductivity due to triplons as a function of the temperature. We find that the Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction yields a finite Berry curvature for the triplon bands, but the corresponding Chern numbers vanish. Although the triplon excitations are topologically trivial, the thermal Hall conductivity of the columnar valence-bond solid phase in the square lattice antiferromagnet is finite at low temperatures. We comment on the relations of our results with a {\sl no-go} condition for a thermal Hall effect previously derived for ordered magnets.


---
# Quantum Spin Hall Effect in Magnetic Graphene

## 磁性石墨烯中的量子自旋霍尔效应

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.07515

arXiv:2312.07515v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: A promising approach to attain long-distance coherent spin propagation is accessing topological spin-polarized edge states in graphene. Achieving this without external magnetic fields necessitates engineering graphene band structure, obtainable through proximity effects in van der Waals heterostructures. In particular, proximity-induced staggered potentials and spin-orbit coupling are expected to form a topological bulk gap in graphene with gapless helical edge states that are robust against disorder. In this work, we detect the spin-polarized helical edge transport in graphene at zero external magnetic field, allowed by the proximity of an interlayer antiferromagnet, CrPS$_4$. We show the coexistence of the quantum spin Hall (QSH) states and magnetism in graphene, where the induced spin-orbit and exchange couplings also give rise to a large anomalous Hall (AH) effect. The detection of the QSH states at zero external magnetic field, together with the AH signal that persists up to room temperature, opens the route for practical applications of magnetic graphene in quantum spintronic circuitries.


---
# A momentum-space theory for topological magnons in 2D ferromagnetic skyrmion lattices

## 二维铁磁天基晶格中拓扑磁振子的动量空间理论

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00192

arXiv:2405.00192v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Magnon dynamics in skyrmion lattices have garnered significant interest due to their potential applications in topological magnonics. Existing theories often follow a single-momentum approach, assuming significant Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya Interaction (DMI) to minimize the skyrmion's dimensions, which can lead to oversimplification in describing magnon behavior. This study introduces a multi-momentum operator theory for magnons in large 2D skyrmions, where each skyrmion encompasses several thousand spins. The proposed theory fully transforms the magnon Hamiltonian into momentum space, incorporating off-diagonal terms to capture umklapp scattering caused by the skyrmion wave vectors. Our results reveal deviations from single-momentum theories, demonstrating that flat bands are not universal features of the skyrmionic magnon spectrum. Additionally, we find that manipulating the skyrmion size with an external magnetic field induces multiple topological phase transitions. At high magnetic fields, the low-energy magnon spectrum becomes densely packed and entirely topological, resembling a topological band continuum.


---
# Logarithmic Finite-Size Scaling of the Four-Dimensional Ising Model

## 四维Ising模型的对数有限尺寸缩放

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.15230

arXiv:2408.15230v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Field-theoretical calculations predict that, at the upper critical dimension $d_c=4$, the finite-size scaling (FSS) behaviors of the Ising model would be modified by multiplicative logarithmic corrections with thermal and magnetic correction exponents $(\hat{y}_t, \hat{y}_h)=(1/6,1/4)$. Using high-efficient cluster algorithms and the lifted worm algorithm, we present a systematic study of the FSS of the four-dimensional Ising model in the Fortuin-Kasteleyn (FK) bond and loop representations. Our numerical results reveal the FSS behaviors of various geometric and physical quantities in the three representations, offering robust evidence for the logarithmic correction form conjectured by the field theory. In particular, clear evidence is obtained for the existence of $\hat{y}_t=1/6$ in the loop representation, while it is difficult to extract in the spin representations, because of mixing with the Gaussian-fixed-point asymptotics. In the FK-bond representation, the multiplicative logarithmic correction for the second-largest cluster is also numerically observed to be governed by an exponent $\hat{y}_{h2} = -1/4$ with its exact value unknown yet.


---
# Revealing subterahertz atomic vibrations in quantum paraelectrics by surface-sensitive spintronic terahertz spectroscopy

## 通过表面敏感自旋电子太赫兹光谱揭示量子顺电中的亚太赫兹原子振动

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.02073

arXiv:2409.02073v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Understanding surface collective dynamics in quantum materials is crucial for advancing quantum technologies. For example, surface phonon modes in quantum paraelectrics are thought to play an essential role in facilitating interfacial superconductivity. However, detecting these modes, especially below 1 terahertz (THz), is challenging due to limited sampling volumes and the need for high spectroscopic resolution. Here, we report surface soft transverse optical (TO1) phonon dynamics in KTaO3 and SrTiO3 by developing surface-sensitive spintronic THz spectroscopy that can sense the collective modes only a few nanometers deep from the surface. In KTaO3, the TO1 mode softens and sharpens with decreasing temperature, leveling off at 0.7 THz. In contrast, this mode in SrTiO3 broadens significantly below the quantum paraelectric crossover and coincides with the hardening of a sub-meV phonon mode related to the antiferrodistortive transition. These observations that deviate from their bulk properties may have implications for interfacial superconductivity and ferroelectricity. The developed technique opens opportunities for sensing low-energy surface excitations.


---
# Synthetic Mutual Gauge Field in Microwave-Shielded Polar Molecular Gases

## 微波屏蔽极性分子气体中的合成互规场

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.10806

arXiv:2410.10806v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: The recent breakthrough of realizing the Bose-Einstein condensate of polar molecules and degenerate Fermi molecules in three dimensions relies crucially on the microwave shielding technique, which strongly suppresses the collision loss between molecules. In this letter, we show that the cooperation of microwave shielding and dipolar interaction naturally leads to the emergence of a synthetic gauge field. Unlike that studied in cold atoms before, this gauge field couples to the relative motion of every two molecules instead of single-particle motion, therefore being a mutual gauge field. In this case, every molecule carrying a synthetic charge sees the other molecule as carrying the source of the magnetic field, and the spatial distribution of the magnetic field is reminiscent of a solenoid attached to the molecule. In other words, in addition to microwave-shielded interaction, another part of the interaction between two molecules behaves as a charge interacting with a solenoid, which was missed in the previous discussion. We argue that the physical manifestation of this gauge field is breaking time-reversal symmetry in the collective spatial motion of molecules. Finally, we discuss the challenges in quantitatively studying such a quantum many-body system.


---
# Non-linear anomalous Edelstein response at altermagnetic interfaces

## 磁界面上的非线性异常Edelstein响应

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18036

arXiv:2410.18036v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: In altermagnets, time-reversal symmetry breaking spin-polarizes electronic states, while total magnetization remains zero. In addition, at altermagnetic surfaces Rashba-spin orbit coupling is activated due to broken inversion symmetry, introducing a competing spin-momentum locking interaction. Here we show that their interplay leads to the formation of complex, chiral spin textures that offer novel, non-linear spin-to-charge conversion properties. Whereas altermagnetic order suppresses the canonical linear in-plane Rashba-Edelstein response, we establish the presence of an anomalous transversal Edelstein effect for planar applied electric and magnetic field, or alternatively, an in-plane magnetization. Moreover the non-linear Edelstein response resulting purely from electric fields also triggers the anomalous out-of-plane magnetization. We determine the anomalous response with a model based on the ab-initio electronic structure of RuO$_2$ bilayers, ultimately opening experimental avenues to explore spin-charge conversion phenomena at altermagnetic interfaces.


---
# R-Ising: Effective resistance in random magnetic nanowires networks

## R-ising: 随机磁性纳米线网络中的有效电阻

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.21999

arXiv:2410.21999v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Random assemblies of magnetic nanowires represent a unique class of materials with promising applications in spintronics and information storage. These assemblies exhibit complex behavior due to the combination of magnetic dipolar interactions between the nanowires and electronic transport properties governed by tunneling barriers at magnetic tunnel junctions (MTJs). The intricate interplay of these phenomena makes the study of magnetic nanowire networks a rich area of research. In this study, we develop a theoretical framework to analyze the resistive behavior of random magnetic nanowire networks. By employing a combination of graph theoretical approaches and mean-field theory, we derive an effective resistance model that encapsulates the contributions of magnetic interactions between the nanowires. Our findings show the importance of considering both the magnetic and electrical properties of nanowire networks in the design and optimization of amorphous resistive devices.


---
# Ultrafast Entropy Production in Non-Equilibrium Magnets

## 非平衡磁体中的超快熵产生

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23205

arXiv:2410.23205v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We present an ultrafast thermodynamics framework to model heat generation and entropy production in laser-driven ferromagnetic systems. By establishing a connection between the magnetic field strength of the laser pulse and magnetization dynamics we model time-dependent entropy production rates and deduce the associated heat dissipation in epitaxial and polycrystalline FeNi and CoFeB thin films. Our theoretical predictions are validated by comparison to experimental magnetization dynamics data, shedding light on thermodynamic processes on picosecond timescales. Crucially, we incorporate recently observed inertial spin dynamics, to describe their impact on heat generation in pump-probe experiments. As such, this formalism provides novel insights into controlling heat production in magnetic systems, and contributes to advancing the understanding of non-equilibrium thermodynamics in magnetic systems, with implications for future experimental protocols in spintronics and nanotechnology.


---
# Collective excitations in magnetic topological insulators and axion dark matter search

## 磁性拓扑绝缘体中的集体激发和轴子暗物质搜索

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.09705

arXiv:2406.09705v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: We investigate collective excitations in magnetic topological insulators (TIs) and their impact on particle axion detection. In the three-dimensional TI model with the Hubbard term, the effective action of magnons and amplitude modes is formulated by dynamical susceptibility under the antiferromagnetic and ferromagnetic states. One of the amplitude modes is identified as ``axionic'' quasi-particle and its effective coupling to the electromagnetic fields turns out to be enhanced by about four orders of magnitude larger than the previous estimate, which may drastically change the sensitivity of the particle axion search using ``axion'' in magnetic TIs.


---
# Space-Time Wedges

## 时空楔

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23291

arXiv:2410.23291v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Space-time-modulated systems have attracted significant interest over the past decade due to their ability to manipulate electromagnetic waves in unprecedented ways. Here, we introduce a new type of space-time-modulated structure, the space-time wedge, consisting of two interfaces moving at different velocities, which results in either closing or opening wedges. Using moving boundary conditions, we derive closed-form solutions for the scattering of electromagnetic waves in such a wedge and leverage these solutions to unveil the underlying physics, including multiple space-time scattering and Doppler shifting. The space-time wedge holds potential for various optical and photonic applications.


---
# Resistive tearing: numerical exploration of nonmodal effects

## 电阻撕裂: 非模态效应的数值探索

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23309

arXiv:2410.23309v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The fluid dynamics community has found success in explaining both the onset and coherent structure formation in wall-bounded turbulence through examining transient growth and pseudoresonance. Whether similar effects are important in plasmas well-described by magnetohydrodynamics is an open question. In nuclear fusion experiments, the onset of turbulence often enhances undesirable heat transport between the core and the edge, and a vast number of studies have attempted to understand these phenomena via linear and nonlinear numerical codes. If there are plasma experiments where instabilities and turbulence onset are dominated by nonmodal effects, the tools of non-modal stability and resolvent analysis could prove to be essential to practitioners. Towards that goal, in this work we provide a detailed derivation of non-modal stability tools and the resolvent operator for incompressible, resistive magnetohydrodynamics (MHD). Concretely, optimal initial conditions that maximize transient growth are computed, along with bounds on linear transient growth, and are numerically verified with a nonlinear solver to show that these linear effects can be reproduced in nonlinear simulations. The potential of such initial conditions to initiate the tearing mode in a spectrally stable system is explored. We found the approach common in nonmodal hydrodynamic stability of using pseudospectral methods to be infeasible for many parameter combinations due to numerical ill-conditioning. Further, transient growth in the Harris current sheet proved to be highly norm-dependent, with the observed differences being of an order of magnitude. Nonlinear simulations showed that transient growth occurs to some extent in all norms, both in the infinitesimal as well as finite limit. No case was observed of transient growth being strong enough to trigger the full plasmoid instability.


---
# Multi-Physics Mathematical Model for Weakly-Ionized Plasma Flows

## 弱电离等离子体流动的多物理场数学模型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23314

arXiv:2410.23314v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: This work presents a multidisciplinary mathematical model, as a set of coupled governing equations and auxiliary relations describing the fluid-flow, thermal, and electric fields of partially-ionized plasma with low magnetic Reynolds numbers. The model is generic enough to handle three-dimensionality, Hall effect, compressibility, and variability of fluid, thermal, and electric properties of the plasma. The model can be of interest to computational modelers aiming to build a solver that quantitatively assesses direct extraction of electric energy from a plasma flow. Three different approaches are proposed to solve numerically for the electric fields with different levels of tolerance toward possible numerical instability encountered at a large Hall parameter, where the effective conductivity tensor loses diagonal dominance and becomes close to singular. A submodel for calculating the local electric properties of the plasma is presented in detail and is applied to demonstrate the effect of different factors on the electric conductivity, including the fuel's carbon/hydrogen ratio and the alkaline seed element that acts as the ionizing species. An analytical expression for the collision cross-section for argon is developed, such that this noble gas can be included as one of the gaseous species comprising the plasma.


---
# STIED: A deep learning model for the SpatioTemporal detection of focal Interictal Epileptiform Discharges with MEG

## STIED: 一种深度学习模型，用于使用MEG对局灶性发作间期癫痫样放电进行时空检测

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23386

arXiv:2410.23386v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Magnetoencephalography (MEG) allows the non-invasive detection of interictal epileptiform discharges (IEDs). Clinical MEG analysis in epileptic patients traditionally relies on the visual identification of IEDs, which is time consuming and partially subjective. Automatic, data-driven detection methods exist but show limited performance. Still, the rise of deep learning (DL)-with its ability to reproduce human-like abilities-could revolutionize clinical MEG practice. Here, we developed and validated STIED, a simple yet powerful supervised DL algorithm combining two convolutional neural networks with temporal (1D time-course) and spatial (2D topography) features of MEG signals inspired from current clinical guidelines. Our DL model enabled both temporal and spatial localization of IEDs in patients suffering from focal epilepsy with frequent and high amplitude spikes (FE group), with high-performance metrics-accuracy, specificity, and sensitivity all exceeding 85%-when learning from spatiotemporal features of IEDs. This performance can be attributed to our handling of input data, which mimics established clinical MEG practice. Reverse engineering further revealed that STIED encodes fine spatiotemporal features of IEDs rather than their mere amplitude. The model trained on the FE group also showed promising results when applied to a separate group of presurgical patients with different types of refractory focal epilepsy, though further work is needed to distinguish IEDs from physiological transients. This study paves the way of incorporating STIED and DL algorithms into the routine clinical MEG evaluation of epilepsy.


---
# Performance tests and hardware qualification of the FEBs for the Super-FGD of T2K Phase II

## T2K二期超级FGD FEBs的性能测试和硬件鉴定

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23833

arXiv:2410.23833v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: T2K is a long baseline neutrino experiment, entering Phase II with a Near Detector upgrade. The T2K near detector (ND280) upgrade consists of the installation of three new detector systems: a plastic scintillator neutrino active target (Super-FGD), two time projection chambers (HA-TPC) and a time of flight detector (TOF). The Super-FGD is composed of 2-million 1 cm-cube scintillating cubes read by almost 60 thousand wavelength-shifting (WLS) fibers coupled to an MPPC on one end. Given the large number of channels, the limited space inside magnetic environment, and the limited time from production to installation, the development and testing of the Front-end electronics boards (FEB) for the read-out of the Super-FGD channels represented a challenging task for the success of the upgrade. This work presents the performance tests confirming that the FEB aligns with detector requirements, and the hardware qualification of 240 FEBs through a custom QC test bench designed to detect and locate hardware failures to speed up the repairing process. Installation of the electronics in the detector took place in March 2024, one year after the beginning of the FEB mass production, and the first successful neutrino beam run took place in June of the same year.


---
# Hall Transport of Charged Particles in Magnetic Disk Array

## 磁盘阵列中带电粒子的霍尔输运

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23930

arXiv:2410.23930v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The concept of periodic structures has driven the development of advanced materials like photonic and phononic crystals. These metamaterials typically rely on complex repeating units or meta-atoms, limiting their adaptability after fabrication. To overcome this limitation, we introduce the concept of metafields, which are repeating patterns of local magnetic fields instead of material structures. Unlike metamaterials, which consist of atoms arranged in structured patterns, metafields focus on the patterns of fields alone, allowing for dynamic property adjustments through external electric currents. This study explores a specific metafield where the repeating pattern is the magnetic disk (MD), defined by a uniform magnetic field perpendicular to its surface. By arranging multiple MDs, we form a magnetic disk array (MDA) and theoretically investigate the charged particle dynamics within this array. Our analysis highlights Hall transport phenomena, such as Hall diffusivity, conductivity, and thermal Hall effects. Using complex variables, we derive the collision integral and Boltzmann equation for particle distribution, applying perturbation methods and Fourier analysis to calculate transport coefficients. Simulations reveal a one-way preferential diffusion at the interface between MDAs with opposing field directions, where diffusion intensity varies with the particle movement direction. This highlights metafields' potential for dynamic particle control applications.


---
# Optics tuning simulations for FCC-ee using Python Accelerator Toolbox

## 使用Python Accelerator Toolbox对fcc-ee进行光学调谐模拟

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24129

arXiv:2410.24129v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The development of ultra-low emittance storage rings, such as the e+/e- Future Circular Collider (FCC-ee) with a circumference of about 90 km, aims to achieve unprecedented luminosity and beam size. One significant challenge is correcting the optics, which becomes increasingly difficult as we target lower emittances. In this paper, we investigate optics correction methods to address these challenges. We examined the impact of arc region magnet alignment errors in the baseline optics for the FCC-ee lattice at Z energy. To establish realistic alignment tolerances, we developed a sequence of correction steps using the Python Accelerator Toolbox (PyAT) to correct the lattice optics, achieve the nominal emittance, Dynamic Aperture (DA), and in the end, the design luminosity. The correction scheme has been recently optimized and better machine performance demonstrated. A comparison was conducted between two optics correction approaches: Linear Optics from Closed Orbits (LOCO) with phase advance + $\eta_x$ and coupling Resonance Driving Terms (RDTs) + $\eta_y$. The latter method demonstrated better performance in achieving the target emittance and enhancing the DA.


---
# On Heterogeneous Ising Machines

## 在异构Ising机器上

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23517

arXiv:2410.23517v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Ising machines are effective solvers for complex combinatorial optimization problems. The idea is mapping the optimal solution(s) to a combinatorial optimization problem to the minimum energy state(s) of a physical system, which naturally converges to and stabilizes at a minimum energy state upon perturbance. The underlying mathematical abstraction, the Ising model, was originally developed to explain dynamic behavior of ferromagnetic materials and was shown to generalize to numerous other physical systems. In a generic optimization problem, each variable can interact with another in different ways. At the same time, problem sizes of practical importance are growing very fast. Unfortunately, both the number and connectivity of spins in hardware are subject to fundamental physical limits. Different problems feature different interaction patterns between variables which may not always directly match the network topology supported by a specific Ising machine. In the presence of a mismatch, emulating generic interactions using the machine topology is usually possible, however, comes at the cost of additional physical spins to facilitate the mapping. Furthermore, mismatches in the problem vs. hardware connectivity render even more physical spins necessary. Combinatorial optimization problems of practical importance come with diverse connectivity patterns, which a rigid network topology in hardware cannot efficiently cover. To bridge the gap between application demand and hardware resources, in analogy to classical heterogeneous chip multiprocessors, in this paper we make the case for heterogeneous Ising multiprocessors, where each Ising core features a different connectivity. We provide a detailed design space exploration and quantify the efficiency of different design options in terms of time or energy to solution along with solution accuracy compared to homogeneous alternatives.


---
# Quantum logic for state preparation, readout, and leakage detection with binary subspace measurements

## 使用二进制子空间测量进行状态准备，读出和泄漏检测的量子逻辑

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23531

arXiv:2410.23531v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We discuss a general technique for using quantum logic spectroscopy to perform quantum non-demolition (QND) measurements that determine which of two subspaces a logic ion is in. We then show how to use the scheme to perform high fidelity state preparation and measurement (SPAM) and non-destructive leakage detection, as well as how this would reduce the engineering task associated with building larger quantum computers. Using a magnetic field gradient, we can apply a geometric phase interaction to map the magnetic sensitivity of the logic into onto the spin-flip probability of a readout ion. In the `low quantization field' regime, where the Zeeman splitting of the sublevels in the hyperfine ground state manifold are approximately integer multiples of each other, we show how to we can use the technique to distinguish between $2^{K}$ hyperfine sublevels in only $K$ logic/readout measurement sequences--opening the door for efficient state preparation of the logic ion. Finally, we show how the binary nature of the scheme, as well as its potential for high QND purity, let us improve SPAM fidelities by detecting and correcting errors rather than preventing them.


---
# Characterization of the optical model of the T2K 3D segmented plastic scintillator detector

## T2K 3D分段塑料闪烁体探测器光学模型的表征

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24099

arXiv:2410.24099v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: The magnetised near detector (ND280) of the T2K long-baseline neutrino oscillation experiment has been recently upgraded aiming to satisfy the requirement of reducing the systematic uncertainty from measuring the neutrinonucleus interaction cross section, which is the largest systematic uncertainty in the search for leptonic charge-parity symmetry violation. A key component of the upgrade is SuperFGD, a 3D segmented plastic scintillator detector made of approximately 2,000,000 optically-isolated 1 cm3 cubes. It will provide a 3D image of GeV neutrino interactions by combining tracking and stopping power measurements of final state particles with sub-nanosecond time resolution. The performance of SuperFGD is characterized by the precision of its response to charged particles as well as the systematic effects that might affect the physics measurements. Hence, a detailed Geant4 based optical simulation of the SuperFGD building block, i.e. a plastic scintillating cube read out by three wavelength shifting fibers, has been developed and validated with the different datasets collected in various beam tests. In this manuscript the description of the optical model as well as the comparison with data are reported.


---
# Investigating the Event-Shape Methods in Search for the Chiral Magnetic Effect in Relativistic Heavy Ion Collisions

## 研究事件形状方法以寻找相对论重离子碰撞中的手性磁效应

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.14489

arXiv:2407.14489v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Chiral Magnetic Effect (CME) is a phenomenon in which electric charge is separated by a strong magnetic field from local domains of chirality imbalance and parity violation in quantum chromodynamics (QCD). The CME-sensitive observable, charge-dependent three-point azimuthal correlator $\Delta\gamma$, is contaminated by a major physics background proportional to the particle's elliptic anisotropy $v_2$. Event-shape engineering (ESE) binning events in dynamical fluctuations of $v_2$ and event-shape selection (ESS) binning events in statistical fluctuations of $v_2$ are two methods to search for the CME by projecting $\Delta\gamma$ to the $v_2=0$ intercept. We conduct a systematic study of these two methods using physics models as well as toy model simulations. It is observed that the ESE method requires significantly more statistics than the ESS method to achieve the same statistical precision of the intercept. It is found that the intercept from the ESS method depends on the details of the event content, such as the mixtures of background contributing sources, and thus is not a clean measure of the CME.


---
# Logarithmic Finite-Size Scaling of the Four-Dimensional Ising Model

## 四维Ising模型的对数有限尺寸缩放

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.15230

arXiv:2408.15230v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Field-theoretical calculations predict that, at the upper critical dimension $d_c=4$, the finite-size scaling (FSS) behaviors of the Ising model would be modified by multiplicative logarithmic corrections with thermal and magnetic correction exponents $(\hat{y}_t, \hat{y}_h)=(1/6,1/4)$. Using high-efficient cluster algorithms and the lifted worm algorithm, we present a systematic study of the FSS of the four-dimensional Ising model in the Fortuin-Kasteleyn (FK) bond and loop representations. Our numerical results reveal the FSS behaviors of various geometric and physical quantities in the three representations, offering robust evidence for the logarithmic correction form conjectured by the field theory. In particular, clear evidence is obtained for the existence of $\hat{y}_t=1/6$ in the loop representation, while it is difficult to extract in the spin representations, because of mixing with the Gaussian-fixed-point asymptotics. In the FK-bond representation, the multiplicative logarithmic correction for the second-largest cluster is also numerically observed to be governed by an exponent $\hat{y}_{h2} = -1/4$ with its exact value unknown yet.


---
# A Versatile Silica Functionalization Strategy for Organic Phase Nanomaterials

## 有机相纳米材料的通用二氧化硅功能化策略

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-cvlt2-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Chemical interactions between nanoparticles and their surroundings are governed by their surface chemistry. Therefore, a versatile strategy for surface functionalization that is compatible with a variety of particle compositions would empower nanotechnology research. Silica coating offers a promising approach, but the ease with which silica shells can be synthesized is determined by the initial solution state of the nanoparticle, since the silica sol-gel chemistry typically occurs in an aqueous phase. While protocols for coating water-soluble particles are well-established, protocols for nanomaterials suspended in organic solvents require phase-transfer during the coating process, often leading to inconsistent reproducibility, non-uniform thicknesses, difficulty in producing thin coatings, and particle aggregation during functionalization. Here, we demonstrate that these challenges stem from insufficient stabilization of the organic-phase particles during the phase transfer, and can be overcome by adding excess surface ligands during the silica growth process. The inclusion of these excess ligands sufficiently alters the nanoparticles’ surface chemistry to suppress particle aggregation, allowing deposition of shells as thin as 0.7 nm on a wide range of nanoparticle compositions, sizes, and shapes. The versatility and reproducibility of this approach is illustrated through its application to isotropic magnetite nanoparticles with diameters between 20-28 nm, anisotropic magnetite nanodiscs >200 nm in diameter, and CdSe/ZnS quantum dots. These silica-coated nanomaterials retain their functional properties, and the silica shell can be further modified with application-specific organic moieties. This approach therefore provides a versatile means of stabilizing nanomaterials for applications that demand precise control over their surface chemistry independent of their functional properties.


---
# Quantum Spin Sensor for Open-shell Molecules

## 开壳层分子的量子自旋传感器

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-g2p6z?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Zig-zag graphene nanoribbons (ZGNRs) exhibit symmetric spin distributions on their edges, making them susceptible to perturbations due to molecular adsorption. This study investigates the impact of adsorption of closed-shell (e.g. N2, CO, CO2) and open-shell paramagnetic (e.g. O2, NO, NO2) molecules on the spin-polarized quantum transport properties of zig-zag graphene nanoribbons using density functional theory and nonequilibrium Green’s function (NEGF-DFT) methods. We found that closed-shell molecules physisorbed on graphene nanoribbons, while open-shell molecules chemisorbed strongly at the edges. This chemisorption disrupts the symmetric spin distribution, leading to spin-polarized transmission. The underlying mechanism for spin-polarized transmission in open-shell molecule adsorbed cases is quantum interference between the localized states of the molecule and the delocalized states of the graphene nanoribbons. The bond current, the current between a pair of two atoms, analysis shows that physisorbed closed-shell molecules act as a scattering center, which reduces the current through graphene nanoribbons. We showed that the interaction of open-shell molecules with the graphene nanoribbons depends on the electronic properties of adsorbed molecules. Thus a variation in destructive quantum interference pattern is observed for different open-shell molecules resulting in different spin current. This phenomenon can be used for molecular recognition of open-shell paramagnetic species, providing avenue for quantum spin sensors technology.

