# Flexible mechano-optical dual-responsive perovskite molecular ferroelectric composites for advanced anticounterfeiting and encryption

## 用于高级防伪和加密的柔性机械光学双响应钙钛矿分子铁电复合材料

Link: https://www.science.org/doi/abs/10.1126/sciadv.adr2886?af=R

Science Advances, Volume 10, Issue 48, November 2024. <br />


---
# Integrated ab initio modelling of atomic ordering and magnetic anisotropy for design of FeNi-based magnets

## 用于基于FeNi的磁体设计的原子有序和磁各向异性的集成从头算模型

Link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41524-024-01435-y

<p>npj Computational Materials, Published online: 29 November 2024; <a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/s41524-024-01435-y">doi:10.1038/s41524-024-01435-y</a></p>Integrated ab initio modelling of atomic ordering and magnetic anisotropy for design of FeNi-based magnets


---
# Planar Hall Plateau in magnetic Weyl semimetals

## 磁性Weyl半金属中的平面霍尔高原

Link: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2095927324008326?dgcid=rss_sd_all

<p>Publication date: Available online 22 November 2024</p><p><b>Source:</b> Science Bulletin</p><p>Author(s): Lei Li, Chaoxi Cui, Run-Wu Zhang, Zhi-Ming Yu, Yugui Yao</p>


---
# Magnetic‐Electrical Synergetic Control of Non‐Volatile States in Bilayer Graphene‐CrOCl Heterostructures

## 双层石墨烯-crocl异质结构中非挥发态的磁电协同控制

Link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202411300?af=R

Advanced Materials, EarlyView.


---
# Additive Manufacturing of Magnetic Materials for Energy, Environment, Healthcare, and Industry Applications

## 用于能源、环境、医疗保健和工业应用的磁性材料增材制造

Link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202416823?af=R

Advanced Functional Materials, EarlyView.


---
# Red-light Active N,C,N-Pincer Bismuthinidene: Excited State Dynamics and Mechanism of Oxidative Addition into Aryl Iodides

## 红光活性的N，C，N-钳形bismutinidene: 芳基碘化物的激发态动力学和氧化加成机理

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-x72vw?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Despite the progress made in the field of synthetic organic photocatalysis over the last decade, the use of higher wavelengths, especially those in the deep-red portion of the electromagnetic spectrum, remain comparatively rare. We have previously disclosed that a well-defined N,C,N-pincer bismuthinidene (1a) can undergo formal oxidative addition into a wide range of aryl electrophiles upon absorption of low-energy red light. In this study, we map out the photophysical dynamics of 1a and glean insights into the nature of the excited state responsible for the activation of aryl electrophiles. Transient-absorption and emission techniques reveal that, upon irradiation with red light, the complex undergoes a direct S0 → S1 metal-to-ligand charge transfer (MLCT) transition, followed by rapid intersystem crossing (ISC) to a highly reducing emissive triplet state (−2.62 V vs Fc+/0 in MeCN). The low dissipative losses incurred during ISC (~6% of the incident light energy) help rationalize the ability of the bismuthinidene to convert low-energy light into useful chemical energy. Spectroelectrochemical and computational data support a charge-separated excited-state structure with radical-anion character on the ligand and radical-cation character on bismuth. Kinetic studies and competition experiments afford insights into the mechanism of oxidative addition into aryl iodides; concerted and inner-sphere processes from the triplet excited state are ruled out, with the data strongly supporting a pathway that proceeds via outer-sphere dissociative electron transfer.


---
# Quantum Spin Wave Excited from a Cr-Dy Single-Molecule Magnet

## Cr-dy单分子磁体激发的量子自旋波

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-41w9z?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Here we report the first observed coexistence of quantum spin wave excitation and single-molecule magnet behavior in a fluoride-bridged mixed chromium(III) and dysprosium(III) complex, namely Dy4Cr2(μ3-F)2(mdea)3(piv)10, which shows a large ferrimagnetic ground moment with restricted quantum tunneling gap (< 3.8 × 10−7 cm−1) up to nine levels, leading to an uniaxial magnetic anisotropic energy barrier of 12 cm−1 and opened hysteresis loop at 0.4 K. More importantly, spin wave excitation has been observed by using inelastic neutron scattering spectroscopy, and the data can be well explained by the L&amp;E-band theory with Δ/2 = 2.08 cm−1 and ε(q) = 2.5 cm−1, providing unambiguous evidence for spin wave excitations.


---
# Assessment of Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction by Applying a New Left Ventricular Segmental Wall Motion Score in Echocardiography Compared to Cardiac Magnetic Resonance and Other Echocardiographic Imaging Methods

## 通过超声心动图中新的左心室节段壁运动评分与心脏磁共振和其他超声心动图成像方法评估左心室射血分数

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5337936/latest

Background
Left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction (EF) is a crucial indicator of left ventricular systolic function in several cardiology fields. Having said that, it also has several key limitations. Assessment of the LV segmental wall motion score (WMS) can substitute for the traditional LVEF for evaluating left ventricular systolic function. This retrospective study intends to investigate the validity of assessing LVEF by utilising a new echocardiographic LV segmental WMS method in comparison with cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging and other echocardiographic modalities.
Methods
In the CMR group, 78 individuals were enrolled, while 118 others were enrolled in the transthoracic echocardiography group. Based on the assumption that each segment contributes proportionally to the global LVEF, each normokinetic and hypokinetic segment will be scored at an average of 4% and 2%, respectively. In comparison, dyskinetic and akinetic segments will be scored at 0%.
Results
WMS-LVEF correlates positively with CMR-LVEF (r = 0.98), three-dimensional (3D) echocardiography (r = 0.98), the 2D biplane Simpson&rsquo;s (r = 0.96), and visual assessment of LVEF (r = 0.97) with P &amp;lt; 0.001.
In general, WMS-LVEF provided a good agreement with a relatively small mean bias and narrow standard deviation (SD) of LVEF compared to CMR-LVEF (bias: 0.83%, SD: 2.8), 3D-echocardiography (bias: 0.43%, SD: 1.96), the 2D biplane Simpson&rsquo;s (bias: 0.74%, SD: 2.39%), and visual assessment of LVEF (bias: 0.20%, SD: 2.39%).
Conclusions
The new WMS-LVEF derived by transthoracic echocardiography has a great correlation and level of agreement with other benchmark echocardiography and CMR-LVEF approaches.


---
# Investigating resting-state functional connectivity changes within procedural memory network across neuropsychiatric disorders using fMRI

## 使用fMRI研究跨神经精神疾病的程序记忆网络内的静息状态功能连接性变化

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5176630/latest

Background Cognitive impairments are common in neuropsychiatric disorders like Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD), bipolar disorder (BD), and schizophrenia (SZ). While previous research has focused on specific brain regions, the role of the procedural memory as a type of long-term memory to cognitive function in these disorders remains unclear. This study investigates the association between cognitive impairments and alterations in resting-state functional connectivity (rs-FC) within procedural memory network in patients with these disorders.Methods This study analyzed resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) data from 40 individuals with ADHD, 49 with BD, 50 with SZ, and 50 healthy controls (HCs). A procedural memory network was defined based on the selection of 34 regions of interest (ROIs) associated with the network in the Harvard-Oxford Cortical Structural Atlas (default atlas). Multivariate ROI-to-ROI connectivity (mRRC) was used to analyze the rs-FC between the defined network regions. Significant differences in rs-FC between patients and HCs were identified (P&amp;thinsp;&amp;lt;&amp;thinsp;0.001).Results ADHD patients showed increased Cereb45 l - Cereb3 r rs-FC (p&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.000067) and decreased Cereb1 l - Cereb6 l rs-FC (p&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.00092). BD patients exhibited increased rs-FC between multiple regions, including Claustrum r - Caudate r (p&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.00058), subthalamic nucleus r - Pallidum l (p&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.00060), substantia nigra l - Cereb2 l (p&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.00082), Cereb10 r - SMA r (p&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.00086), and Cereb9 r - SMA l (p&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.00093) as well as decreased rs-FC in subthalamic nucleus r - Cereb6 l (p&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.00013) and Cereb9 r - Cereb9 l (p&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.00033). SZ patients indicated increased Caudate r&amp;ndash; putamen l rs-FC (p&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.00057) and decreased rs-FC in subthalamic nucleus r &amp;ndash; Cereb6 l (p&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.000063), and Cereb1 r &amp;ndash; subthalamic nucleus r (p&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.00063).Conclusions This study found significant alterations in rs-FC within the procedural memory network in patients with ADHD, BD, and SZ compared to HCs. These findings suggest that disrupted rs-FC within this network may contribute to cognitive impairments observed in these disorders.

