# Strong interlayer magnetic exchange coupling in La<sub>3</sub>Ni<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7âˆ’<em>Î´</em></sub> revealed by inelastic neutron scattering

## éå¼¹æ€§ä¸­å­æ•£å°„æ­ç¤ºçš„La&lt;sub&gt;3&lt;/sub&gt;Ni&lt;sub&gt;2&lt;/sub&gt;O&lt;sub&gt;7-&lt;em&gt;Î´&lt;/em&gt;&lt;/sub&gt; ä¸­çš„å¼ºå±‚é—´ç£äº¤æ¢è€¦åˆ

Link: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2095927324005164?dgcid=rss_sd_all

<p>Publication date: 30 October 2024</p><p><b>Source:</b> Science Bulletin, Volume 69, Issue 20</p><p>Author(s): Tao Xie, Mengwu Huo, Xiaosheng Ni, Feiran Shen, Xing Huang, Hualei Sun, Helen C. Walker, Devashibhai Adroja, Dehong Yu, Bing Shen, Lunhua He, Kun Cao, Meng Wang</p>


---
# Topological surface states in quasi-two-dimensional magnetic kagome metal EuTi<sub>3</sub>Bi<sub>4</sub>

## å‡†äºŒç»´ç£æ€§kagomeé‡‘å±EuTi&lt;sub&gt;3&lt;/sub&gt;Bi&lt;sub&gt;4&lt;/sub&gt; ä¸­çš„æ‹“æ‰‘è¡¨é¢æ€

Link: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2095927324005966?dgcid=rss_sd_all

<p>Publication date: 30 October 2024</p><p><b>Source:</b> Science Bulletin, Volume 69, Issue 20</p><p>Author(s): Zhicheng Jiang, Tongrui Li, Jian Yuan, Zhengtai Liu, Zhipeng Cao, Soohyun Cho, Mingfang Shu, Yichen Yang, Zhikai Li, Jiayu Liu, Jianyang Ding, Zhonghao Liu, Jishan Liu, Jie Ma, Zhe Sun, Xiangang Wan, Yanfeng Guo, Dawei Shen, Donglai Feng</p>


---
# Out-of-plane bond order phase, superconductivity, and their competition in the $t$-$J_\parallel$-$J_\perp$ model for pressurized nickelates

## å¹³é¢å¤–é”®åºç›¸ï¼Œè¶…å¯¼æ€§åŠå…¶åœ¨åŠ å‹é•é…¸ç›çš„ $ t $-$ j_ \ parallel $ $-$ j_ \ perp $ æ¨¡å‹ä¸­çš„ç«äº‰

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.00269

arXiv:2411.00269v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Almost four decades of intense research have been invested to study the physics of high-T$_c$ cuprate superconductors. The recent discovery of high-T$_c$ superconductivity in pressurized bilayer nickelates and its potential similarities with cuprate superconductors may open a new window to understand this long standing problem. Motivated by this we have assumed that nickelates belong to the category of strongly correlated systems, and considered the bilayer $t$-$J_\parallel$-$J_\perp$ model as a minimal model, where $J_\parallel$ and $J_\perp$ are the in-plane and out-of-plane magnetic exchange, respectively. We have studied the $t$-$J_\parallel$-$J_\perp$ model in a large-$N$ approach on the basis of the path integral representation for Hubbard operators, which allows to obtain results at mean-field and beyond mean-field level. We find that $J_\perp$ is a promising candidate for triggering high superconducting $T_c$ values at quarter filling (hole doping $\delta=0.5$) of the $d_{x^2-y^2}$ orbitals. Beyond mean-field level, we remarkably find a new phase, an out-of-plane bond-order phase (z-BOP), triggered also by $J_\perp$. z-BOP develops below a critical temperature which decreases with increasing doping and vanishes at a quantum critical point below quarter filling. The occurrence of this phase and its competition with superconductivity leads to a superconducting dome shaped behavior as a function of doping and as a function of $J_\perp$. Comparisons with the physics of cuprates and the recent literature on the new pressurized nickelates are given along the paper.


---
# Spin excitations of the Shastry-Sutherland model -- altermagnetism and proximate deconfined quantum criticality

## Shastry-Sutherlandæ¨¡å‹çš„è‡ªæ—‹æ¿€å‘-åœ°ç£å’Œæ¥è¿‘çš„è§£æ„é‡å­ä¸´ç•Œ

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.00301

arXiv:2411.00301v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Symmetry plays a crucial role in condensed matter physics. In quantum magnetism, it dictates a number of exotic phenomena, including deconfined quantum criticality and altermagnetism. Here, by studying the spin excitations of the $S=1/2$ antiferromagnetic Shastry-Sutherland model, we show that the N\'eel antiferromagnetic state in this model is an altermagnet featuring a non-relativistic splitting between two chiral magnon bands. Moreover, we identify a Higgs mode in the longitudinal excitation channel, whose gap softens when approaching the antiferromagnetic to plaquette valence bond solid transition, implying the appearance of nearly deconfined excitations. However, the splitting between the two magnon bands (Goldstone modes) remains finite at the transition. These results indicate that the transition is weakly first-order and proximate to a putative deconfined quantum critical point. We find that the altermagnetism provides a sensitive means to probe the deconfined quantum criticality.


---
# Two plaquette-singlet phases in the Shastry-Sutherland compound SrCu2(BO3)2

## Shastry-SutherlandåŒ–åˆç‰©SrCu2(BO3)2ä¸­çš„ä¸¤ä¸ªplaquette-å•å³°ç›¸

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.00302

arXiv:2411.00302v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The nature of the high-pressure plaquette-singlet (PS) phase of SrCu$_2$(BO$_3$)$_2$ remains enigmatic. In this work, we revisit the high-pressure $^{11}$B NMR study and identify two distinct coexisting gapped PS states within the NMR spectra. In addition to the previously reported full-plaquette phase, a second PS phase is discerned, characterized by a slightly lower resonance frequency and larger spin-lattice relaxation rates in its ordered phase. Notably, this second phase exhibits enhanced spin fluctuations in its precursor liquid state above the transition temperature. The volume fraction of this phase increases significantly with pressure, reaching approximately 70\% at 2.65~GPa. Furthermore, at 2.4~GPa, a field-induced quantum phase transition from the PS phase to an antiferromagnetic phase is observed around 5.5~T, with a scaling behavior of $1/T_1 \sim T^{0.6}$ near the transition field. This behavior suggests a continuous or nearly continuous nature for the field-induced transition. Our findings provide experimental evidence for the long-sought empty-plaquette singlet phase in SrCu$_2$(BO$_3$)$_2$ within the framework of the Shastry-Sutherland model, thus establishing a promising platform for future studies of deconfined quantum criticality in this model system.


---
# Three-dimensional Topological Superstructure of Magnetic Hopfions Threaded by Meron Strings in Easy-plane Magnets

## æ˜“å¹³é¢ç£ä½“ä¸­Meronå¼¦ç©¿è¿‡çš„ç£æ€§hopfionçš„ä¸‰ç»´æ‹“æ‰‘è¶…ç»“æ„

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.00396

arXiv:2411.00396v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Topological spin textures exhibit a hierarchical nature. For instance, magnetic skyrmions, which possess a particle-like nature, can aggregate to form superstructures such as skyrmion strings and skyrmion lattices. Magnetic hopfions are also regarded as superstructures constructed from closed loops of twisted skyrmion strings, which behave as another independent particles. However, it remains elusive whether such magnetic hopfions can also aggregate to form higher-level superstructures. Here, we report a stable superstructure with three-dimensional periodic arrangement of magnetic hopfions in a frustrated spin model with easy-plane anisotropy. By comprehensively examining effective interactions between two hopfions, we construct the hopfion superstructure by a staggered arrangement of one-dimensional hopfion chains with Hopf number $H=+1$ and $H=-1$ running perpendicular to the easy plane. Each hopfion chain is threaded by a magnetic meron string, resulting in a nontrivial topological texture with skyrmion number $N_{\rm sk}=2$ per magnetic unit cell on any two-dimensional cut parallel to the easy plane. We show that the hopfion superstructure remains robust as a metastable state across a range of the hopfion density. Furthermore, we demonstrate that superstructures with higher Hopf number can also be stabilized. Our findings extend the existing hierarchy of topological magnets and pave the way for exploring new quantum phenomena and spin dynamics.


---
# Controlling electronic properties of hexagonal manganites through aliovalent doping and thermoatmospheric history

## é€šè¿‡ä½ä»·æºæ‚å’Œçƒ­å¤§æ°”å†å²æ§åˆ¶å…­æ–¹é”°çŸ¿çš„ç”µå­æ€§è´¨

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.00454

arXiv:2411.00454v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The family of hexagonal manganites is intensively studied for its multiferroicity, magnetoelectric coupling, improper ferroelectricity, functional domain walls, and topology-related scaling behaviors. It is established that these physical properties are co-determined by the cation sublattices and that aliovalent doping can readily be leveraged to modify them. The doping, however, also impacts the anion defect chemistry and semiconducting properties, which makes the system highly sensitive to the synthesis and processing conditions. Here, we study the electronic properties of YMnO3 as function of aliovalent cation doping and thermoatmospheric history, combining density functional theory calculations with thermopower and thermogravimetric measurements. We show that the charge carrier concentration and transport properties can be controlled via both aliovalent cation dopants and anion defects, enabling reversible switching between n-type and p-type conductivity. This tunability is of importance for envisaged applications of hexagonal manganites in, e.g. next-generation capacitors and domain-wall nanoelectronics, or as catalysts or electrodes in fuel cells or electrolyzers. Furthermore, our approach is transferrable to other transition metal oxides, providing general guidelines for controlling their semiconducting properties.


---
# Spin orbit torque-driven motion of quasi-Bloch domain wall in perpendicularly magnetized W/CoFeB/MgO structures

## å‚ç›´ç£åŒ–W/CoFeB/MgOç»“æ„ä¸­å‡†å¸ƒæ´›èµ«ç•´å£çš„è‡ªæ—‹è½¨é“è½¬çŸ©é©±åŠ¨è¿åŠ¨

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.00516

arXiv:2411.00516v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The motion of chiral magnetic domain walls (DWs) driven by spin-orbit torque (SOT) has been extensively studied in heavy metal/ferromagnet heterostructures with perpendicular magnetic anisotropy. This study specifically focuses on SOT-driven DWs in near Bloch-states, which we refer to as ``quasi-Bloch DWs". These quasi-Bloch DWs exhibit slower motion compared to Neel-type DWs, offering potential for achieving highly controllable DW positions. Here, we investigate the characteristics of SOT-driven motion of quasi-Bloch DWs in perpendicularly magnetized ultra-thin films consisting of W/CoFeB/MgO. For analyzing the DW motion, we employ a one-dimensional model incorporating parameters derived from experimental data obtained from our samples. Our model successfully reproduces the experimental results, which reveal variations in the direction and threshold current density of DW motion among different samples. Through theoretical analysis, we unveil that the DW remains in quasi-Bloch states during motion, with SOT serving as the primary driving force rather than spin transfer torque (STT). The direction of motion is determined not only by the sign combination of Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction (DMI) and spin Hall angle but also by the strength of DMI, STT, and extrinsic DW pinning. Furthermore, we provide analytical expressions for the threshold current density required for SOT-driven quasi-Bloch DW motion. These findings provide valuable insights for the design of future DW devices with specific film structures.


---
# Electronic states bound by repulsive potentials in graphene irradiated by a circularly polarized electromagnetic field

## åœ†æåŒ–ç”µç£åœºè¾ç…§çŸ³å¢¨çƒ¯ä¸­æ’æ–¥åŠ¿æŸç¼šçš„ç”µå­æ€

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.00550

arXiv:2411.00550v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: In the framework of the Floquet theory of periodically driven quantum systems, it is demonstrated that irradiation of graphene by a circularly polarized electromagnetic field induces an attractive area in the core of repulsive potentials. Consequently, the quasi-stationary electron states bound by the repulsive potentials appear. The difference between such field-induced states in graphene and usual systems with the parabolic dispersion of electrons is discussed and possible manifestations of these states in electronic transport and optical spectra of graphene are considered.


---
# Fragile altermagnetism and orbital disorder in Mott insulator LaTiO$_3$

## Mottç»ç¼˜å­LaTiO $_3 $ ä¸­çš„è„†å¼±ç£å’Œè½¨é“ç´Šä¹±

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.00583

arXiv:2411.00583v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Based on ab initio calculations, we demonstrate that a Mott insulator LaTiO$_3$ (LTO), not inspected previously as an altermagnetic material, shows the characteristic features of altermagnets, i.e., (i) fully compensated antiferromagnetism and (ii) $\mathbf{k}$-dependent spin-split electron bands in the absence of spin-orbit coupling. The altermagnetic ground state of LTO is protected by the crystal symmetry and specifically ordered $d$-orbitals of Ti ions with the orbital momentum $l=2.$ The altermagnetism occurs when sites of Ti pair in the unit cell are occupied by single electrons with $m=-1,s_{z}=+1/2$ and $m=+1,s_{z}=-1/2$ per site, with $m$ and $s_{z}-$ being the $z-$ component of the orbital momentum and spin, respectively. By further simulating orbital disorder within the Green's function method, we disclose its damaging character on the spin splitting and the resulting altermagnetism. When the single-electron spin-polarized state at each Ti site is contributed almost equally by two or three $t_{2g}$ orbitals, LTO becomes antiferromagnetic. The effect of the spin-orbit coupling, which can cause orbital disorder and suppress altermagnetism, is discussed.


---
# From supefluid 3He to altermagnets

## ä»æµä½“3ä»–åˆ°åœ°ç£

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.00717

arXiv:2411.00717v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The Pauli exclusion principle combined with interactions between fermions is a unifying basic mechanism that can give rise to quantum phases with spin order in diverse physical systems. Transition-metal ferromagnets, with isotropic ordering respecting crystallographic rotation symmetries and with a net magnetization, are a relatively common manifestation of this mechanism, leading to numerous practical applications, e.g., in spintronic information technologies. In contrast, superfluid $^3$He has been a unique and fragile manifestation, in which the spin-ordered phase is anisotropic, breaking the real-space rotation symmetries, and has zero net magnetization. The recently discovered altermagnets share the spin-ordered anisotropic zero-magnetization nature of superfluid $^3$He. Yet, altermagnets appear to be even more abundant than ferromagnets, can be robust, and are projected to offer superior scalability for spintronics compared to ferromagnets. Our Perspective revisits the decades of research of the spin-ordered anisotropic zero-magnetization phases including, besides superfluid $^3$He, also theoretically conceived counterparts in nematic electronic liquid-crystal phases. While all sharing the same extraordinary character of symmetry breaking, we highlight the distinctions in microscopic physics which set altermagnets apart and enable their robust and abundant material realizations.


---
# Detection of Majorana zero modes bound to Josephson vortices in planar S-TI-S junctions

## åœ¨å¹³é¢s-ti-sç»“ä¸­æ£€æµ‹ä¸çº¦ç‘Ÿå¤«æ£®æ¶¡æ—‹æœ‰å…³çš„Majoranaé›¶æ¨¡

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.00756

arXiv:2411.00756v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We study signatures of Majorana zero modes (MZMs) bound to Josephson vortices in superconductor-three-dimensional topological insulator-superconductor (S-TI-S) Josephson junctions placed in a perpendicular magnetic field. First, using semiclassical analytical as well as numerical techniques, we calculate the spatially resolved supercurrent density carried by the low-energy Caroli-de Gennes-Matricon (CdGM) states in the junction. Motivated by a recent experiment [Yue et al., Phys. Rev. B 109, 094511 (2024)], we discuss if and how the presence of vortex MZMs is reflected in supercurrent measurements, showing that Fraunhofer signatures alone are not suitable to reliably detect vortex MZMs. Next, we propose two ways in which we believe supercurrent measurements could be complemented to further verify that the junction does indeed host MZMs. Explicitly, we discuss how additional Majorana signatures could be obtained by (1) mapping out the local density of states in the junction via scanning tunneling microscopy techniques, and (2) microwave spectroscopy of the spectrum of low-energy CdGM states in the junction.


---
# Density-Matrix Renormalization Group Study of Kitaev--Heisenberg Model on a Triangular Lattice

## ä¸‰è§’æ ¼ä¸ŠKitaev -- Heisenbergæ¨¡å‹çš„å¯†åº¦-çŸ©é˜µé‡æ•´åŒ–ç¾¤ç ”ç©¶

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/1512.02334

arXiv:1512.02334v5 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We study the Kitaev--Heisenberg model on a triangular lattice by using the two-dimensional density-matrix renormalization group method. Calculating the ground-state energy and spin structure factors, we obtain a ground-state phase diagram of the Kitaev--Heisenberg model. As suggested by previous studies, we find a 120$^\circ$ antiferromagnetic (AFM) phase, a $\mathbb{Z}_2$-vortex crystal phase, a nematic phase, a dual $\mathbb{Z}_2$-vortex crystal phase (the dual counterpart of the $\mathbb{Z}_2$-vortex crystal phase), a $\mathbb{Z}_6$ ferromagnetic phase, and a dual ferromagnetic phase (the dual counterpart of the $\mathbb{Z}_6 $ ferromagnetic phase). Spin correlations discontinuously change at phase boundaries because of first-order phase transitions. We also study the relation among the von Neumann entanglement entropy, entanglement spectrum, and phase transitions of the model. We find that the Schmidt gap closes at phase boundaries and thus the entanglement entropy clearly changes as well. This is different from the Kitaev--Heisenberg model on a honeycomb lattice, where the Schmidt gap and entanglement entropy are not necessarily a good measure of phase transitions.


---
# Cooperative quantum tunneling of the magnetization in Fe-doped Li$_3$N

## Feæºæ‚Li $_3 $ Nä¸­ç£åŒ–çš„ååŒé‡å­éš§ç©¿

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.18185

arXiv:2310.18185v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: The spin-reversal in dilute Li$_2$(Li$_{1-x}$Fe$_{x}$)N with $x < 1$ % is dominated by resonant quantum tunneling of spatially well-separated states. We report on the effect of finite couplings between those states that give rise to cooperative, simultaneous quantum tunneling of two spins. This phenomenon, known as spin-spin cross relaxation, effectively elucidates the fine-structure observed in isothermal magnetization loops, a previously unresolved aspect. Temperature and field-dependent magnetization measurements were conducted over a range from T = 2 K to 300 K in applied fields of up to $\mu_0H$ = 7 T. Magnetic dipole fields are computed numerically. Our findings affirm the absence of stoichiometric defects in Li$_2$(Li$_{1-x}$Fe$_{x}$)N and underscore its exemplary suitability as a model system for investigating spin-reversal processes at the microscopic level. This is attributed to its comparatively simple crystal structure, the availability of large single crystals, elevated characteristic energies, and well-defined energy levels


---
# Absence of high pressure ground state re-entrant ferroelectricity in PbTiO$_3$

## PbTiO $_3 $ ä¸­ä¸å­˜åœ¨é«˜å‹åŸºæ€é‡å…¥é“ç”µæ€§

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.18421

arXiv:2310.18421v4 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We study ferroelectricity in the classic perovskite ferroelectric PbTiO$_3$ to high pressures with density functional theory (DFT) and experimental diamond-anvil techniques. We use second harmonic generation (SHG) spectroscopy to detect lack of inversion symmetry. Consistent with early understanding and experiments, we find that ferroelectricity disappears at moderate pressures. However, DFT computations show that the disappearance arises from the overtaking of zone boundary instabilities, and not from the squeezing out of the off-centering ferroelectric displacements with pressure, as previously thought. Moreover, at high pressures the distorted perovskite phases are metastable with respect to a new dense centrosymmetric post-perovskite phase with P$2_1/m$ symmetry and 8-coordinated Ti, which becomes stable at about 70 GPa.


---
# Room Temperature Magnetic Skyrmions in Gradient-Composition Engineered CoPt Single Layers

## æ¢¯åº¦ç»„æˆå·¥ç¨‹CoPtå•å±‚ä¸­çš„å®¤æ¸©ç£æ€§Skyrmions

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.09632

arXiv:2405.09632v4 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Topologically protected magnetic skyrmions in magnetic materials are stabilized by interfacial or bulk Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction (DMI). Interfacial DMI decays with increase of the magnetic layer thickness in just a few nanometers and bulk DMI typically stabilizes magnetic skyrmions at low temperatures. Consequently, more flexibility in manipulation of DMI is required for utilizing nanoscale skyrmions in energy efficient memory and logic devices at room temperature (RT). Here, we demonstrate the observation of RT skyrmions stabilized by gradient DMI (g-DMI) in composition gradient engineered CoPt single layer films by employing topological Hall effect, magnetic force microscopy, and nitrogen vacancy scanning magnetometry. Skyrmions remain stable at a wide range of applied magnetic fields and are confirmed to be nearly Bloch-type from micromagnetic simulation and analytical magnetization reconstruction. Furthermore, we observe skyrmion pairs which may be explained by skyrmion-antiskyrmion interactions. Our findings expand the family of magnetic materials hosting RT magnetic skyrmions by tuning g-DMI via gradient polarity and choice of magnetic elements.


---
# Dynamical Geometry of the Haldane Model under a Quantum Quench

## é‡å­çŒç­ä¸‹Haldaneæ¨¡å‹çš„åŠ¨åŠ›å­¦å‡ ä½•

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.12470

arXiv:2405.12470v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We explore the time evolution of a topological system when the system undergoes a sudden quantum quench within the same nontrivial phase. Using Haldane's honeycomb model as an example, we show that equilibrium states in a topological phase can be distinguished by geometrical features, such as the characteristic momentum at which the half-occupied edge modes cross, the associated edge-mode velocity, and the winding vector about which the normalized pseudospin magnetic field winds along a great circle on the Bloch sphere. We generalize these geometrical quantities for non-equilibrium states and use them to visualize the quench dynamics of the topological system. In general, we find the pre-quench equilibrium state relaxes to the post-quench equilibrium state in an oscillatory fashion, whose amplitude decay as $t^{1/2}$. In the process, however, the characteristic winding vector of the non-equilibrium system can evolve to regimes that are not reachable with equilibrium states.


---
# Dopant pairing in a disordered magnetic spin ladder

## æ— åºç£è‡ªæ—‹é˜¶æ¢¯ä¸­çš„æºæ‚å‰‚é…å¯¹

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.01252

arXiv:2407.01252v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: I demonstrate a pairing mechanism of dopants in a magnetic lattice, emerging from the underlying high-temperature disorder of the spins. The effect is demonstrated in a mixed-dimensional model, where dopants travel along a two-leg ladder, while the spins feature Ising interactions along the rungs and the legs of the ladder. The dynamics following the sudden immersion of two nearest neighbor dopants in an infinite temperature spin lattice shows that thermal spin disorder frustrates the relative motion of the dopants and enforces them to co-propagate. The predictions are shown to be realistically testable in quantum simulation experiments.


---
# Tunable magnonic crystal in a hybrid superconductor--ferrimagnet nanostructure

## æ··åˆè¶…å¯¼ä½“ä¸­çš„å¯è°ƒè°ç£æŒ¯å­æ™¶ä½“ -- é“ç£ä½“çº³ç±³ç»“æ„

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.01240

arXiv:2408.01240v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: One of the most intriguing properties of magnonic systems is their reconfigurability, where an external magnetic field alters the static magnetic configuration to influence magnetization dynamics. In this paper, we present an alternative approach to tunable magnonic systems. We studied theoretically and numerically a magnonic crystal induced within a uniform magnetic layer by a periodic magnetic field pattern created by the sequence of superconducting strips. We showed that the spin-wave spectrum can be tuned by the inhomogeneous stray field of the superconductor in response to a small uniform external magnetic field. Additionally, we demonstrated that modifying the width of superconducting strips and separation between them leads to the changes in the internal field which are unprecedented in conventional magnonic structures. The paper presents the results of semi-analytical calculations for realistic structures, which are verified by finite-element method computations.


---
# Magnon spin transport in the van der Waals antiferromagnet CrPS4 for non-collinear and collinear magnetization

## èŒƒå¾·ååé“ç£ä½“CrPS4ä¸­éå…±çº¿å’Œå…±çº¿ç£åŒ–çš„ç£æŒ¯å­è‡ªæ—‹è¾“è¿

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.02590

arXiv:2409.02590v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We investigate the injection, transport and detection of magnon spins in the van der Waals antiferromagnet chromium thiophosphate (CrPS4). We electrically and thermally inject magnon spins by platinum contacts and examine the non-local resistance as a function of in-plane magnetic field up to 12 Tesla. We observe a large non-local resistance from both the electrically and thermally excited magnon modes above the spin-flip field where CrPS4 is in the collinear state. At 25 K for an in-plane field of ranging 5 - 12 T, we extract the magnon relaxation length ranging $200-800$ nm and a typical magnon conductivity of 1e4 Sm-1, which is one order of magnitude smaller than in yttrium iron garnet (YIG) films at room temperature. Moreover, we find that the magnon conductivity is almost zero for CrPS4 in the non-collinear state. Our results open up the way to understanding the role of the antiferromagnetic magnon modes on spin injection into antiferromagnets and implementation of two-dimensional magnets for scalable magnonic circuits.


---
# High-throughput search for topological magnon materials

## æ‹“æ‰‘ç£æŒ¯å­ææ–™çš„é«˜é€šé‡æœç´¢

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18873

arXiv:2410.18873v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Topological magnons give rise to possibilities for engineering novel spintronics devices with critical applications in quantum information and computation, due to its symmetry-protected robustness and low dissipation. However, to make reliable and systematic predictions about material realization of topological magnons has been a major challenge, due to the lack of neutron scattering data for most materials. In this work, we significantly advance the symmetry-based approach for identifying topological magnons through developing a fully automated algorithm, utilizing the theory of symmetry indicators, that enables a highly efficient and large-scale search for candidate materials hosting field-induced topological magnons. This progress not only streamlines the discovery process but also expands the scope of materials exploration beyond previous manual or traditional methods, offering a powerful tool for uncovering novel topological phases in magnetic systems. Performing a large-scale search over all 1649 magnetic materials in Bilbao Crystallographic Server with a commensurate magnetic order, we discover 387 candidate materials for topological magnons, significantly expanding the pool of topological magnon materials. We further discuss examples and experimental accessibility of the candidate materials, shedding light on future experimental realizations of topological magnons in magnetic materials.


---
# Axion detection via superfluid $^3$He ferromagnetic phase and quantum measurement techniques

## è¶…æµä½“ $ ^ 3 $ ä»–é“ç£ç›¸å’Œé‡å­æµ‹é‡æŠ€æœ¯çš„è½´å­æ£€æµ‹

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.09160

arXiv:2309.09160v3 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: We propose to use the nuclear spin excitation in the ferromagnetic A1 phase of the superfluid $^3$He for the axion dark matter detection. This approach is striking in that it is sensitive to the axion-nucleon coupling, one of the most important features of the QCD axion introduced to solve the strong CP problem. We review a quantum mechanical description of the nuclear spin excitation and apply it to the estimation of the axion-induced spin excitation rate. We also describe a possible detection method of the spin excitation in detail and show that the combination of the squeezing of the final state with the Josephson parametric amplifier and the homodyne measurement can enhance the sensitivity. It turns out that this approach gives good sensitivity to the axion dark matter with the mass of $O(1) \, \mu \mathrm{eV}$ depending on the size of the external magnetic field. We estimate the parameters of experimental setups, e.g., the detector volume and the amplitude of squeezing, required to reach the QCD axion parameter space.


---
# X point effects on the ideal MHD modes in tokamaks in the description of dual-poloidal-region safety factor

## åœ¨æè¿°åŒæä½“åŒºåŸŸå®‰å…¨ç³»æ•°æ—¶ï¼Œæ‰˜å¡é©¬å…‹ä¸­ç†æƒ³MHDæ¨¡å¼ä¸Šçš„Xç‚¹æ•ˆåº”

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.00194

arXiv:2411.00194v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The flux coordinates with dual-region safety factor (q) in the poloidal direction are developed in this work. The X-point effects on the ideal MHD modes in tokamaks are then analyzed using this coordinate system. Since the X-point effects mainly affect the edge region, the modes localized at the tokamak edge are particularly examined. Two types of modes are studied. The first is related to the conventional peeling or peeling-ballooning modes. The mode existence aligned with the local magnetic field in the poloidally core region, as observed experimentally, is confirmed. The X points are shown to contribute to a stabilizing effect for the conventionally treated modes with the surface-averaged q and with the tokamak edge portion truncated. The other is the axisymmetric modes localized in the vicinity of X points, which can affect the cross-field-line transport near the X points. The existence of axisymmetric modes points to the possibility of applying a toroidally axisymmetric resonant magnetic perturbation (RMP) in the X-point area for mitigating the edge localized modes, which can be an alternative to the current RMP design. The dual q description also has important implications for the existing non-axisymmetric RMP concept. It helps to understand why the RMP suppression of edge localized modes is difficult to achieve in the double-null tokamak configurations and points to the possibility of further improving the current RMP concept by considering the alignment to the local q.


---
# Quasi-Phase-Matching Enabled by van der Waals Stacking

## èŒƒå¾·åå †å å®ç°å‡†ç›¸ä½åŒ¹é…

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.00303

arXiv:2411.00303v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Quasi-phase matching (QPM) is a technique extensively utilized in nonlinear optics for enhancing the efficiency and stability of frequency conversion processes. However, the conventional QPM relies on periodically poled ferroelectric crystals, which are limited in availability. The 3R phase of molybdenum disulfide (3R-MoS2), a transition metal dichalcogenide (TMDc) with the broken inversion symmetry, stands out as a promising candidate for QPM, enabling efficient nonlinear process. Here, we experimentally demonstrate the QPM at nanoscale, utilizing van der Waals stacking of 3R-MoS2 layers with specific orientation to realize second harmonic generation (SHG) enhancement beyond the non QPM limit. We have also demonstrated enhanced spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC) via QPM of 3R-MoS2 homo-structure, enabling more efficient generation of entangled photon pairs. The tunable capacity of 3R-MoS2 van der Waals stacking provides a platform for tuning phase-matching condition. This technique opens interesting possibilities for potential applications in nonlinear process and quantum technology.


---
# Generalized coherent wave control at dynamic interfaces

## åŠ¨æ€ç•Œé¢ä¸Šçš„å¹¿ä¹‰ç›¸å¹²æ³¢æ§åˆ¶

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.00574

arXiv:2411.00574v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Coherent wave control is of key importance across a broad range of fields such as electromagnetics, photonics, and acoustics. It enables us to amplify or suppress the outgoing waves via engineering amplitudes and phases of multiple incidences. However, within a purely spatially (temporally) engineered medium, coherent wave control requires the frequency of the associated incidences to be identical (opposite). In this work, we break this conventional constraint by generalizing coherent wave control into a spatiotemporally engineered medium, i.e., the system featuring a dynamic interface. Owing to the broken translational symmetry in space and time, both the subluminal and superluminal interfaces allow interference between scattered waves regardless of their different frequencies and wavevectors. Hence, one can flexibly eliminate the backward- or forward-propagating waves scattered from the dynamic interfaces by controlling the incident amplitudes and phases. Our work not only presents a generalized way for reshaping arbitrary waveforms but also provides a promising paradigm to generate ultrafast pulses using low-frequency signals. We have also implemented suppression of forward-propagating waves in microstrip transmission lines with fast photodiode switches.


---
# Cross-Field Diffusion Effects on Particle Transport in a Solar Coronal Flux Rope

## äº¤å‰åœºæ‰©æ•£å¯¹å¤ªé˜³æ—¥å†•é€šé‡ç»³ä¸­ç²’å­ä¼ è¾“çš„å½±å“

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.00738

arXiv:2411.00738v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Solar energetic particles (SEPs) associated with solar flares and coronal mass ejections (CMEs) are key agents of space weather phenomena, posing severe threats to spacecraft and astronauts. Recent observations by Parker Solar Probe (PSP) indicate that the magnetic flux ropes of a CME can trap energetic particles and act as barriers, preventing other particles from crossing. In this paper, we introduce the novel COCONUT+PARADISE model to investigate the confinement of energetic particles within a flux rope and the effects of cross-field diffusion (CFD) on particle transport in the solar corona, particularly in the presence of a CME. Using the global magnetohydrodynamic coronal model COCONUT, we generate background configurations containing a CME modeled as a Titov-D\'emoulin flux rope (TDFR). We then utilize the particle transport code PARADISE to inject monoenergetic 100 keV protons inside one of the TDFR legs near its footpoint and evolve the particles through the COCONUT backgrounds. To study CFD, we employ two different approaches regarding the perpendicular proton mean free path (MFP): a constant MFP and a Larmor radius-dependent MFP. We contrast these results with those obtained without CFD. While particles remain fully trapped within the TDFR without CFD, we find that even relatively small perpendicular MFP values allow particles on the outer layers to escape. In contrast, the initially interior trapped particles stay largely confined. Finally, we highlight how our model and this paper's results are relevant for future research on particle acceleration and transport in an extended domain encompassing both the corona and inner heliosphere.


---
# Effects of background solar wind and drag force on the propagation of coronal mass ejection driven shock

## èƒŒæ™¯å¤ªé˜³é£å’Œé˜»åŠ›å¯¹æ—¥å†•ç‰©è´¨æŠ›å°„é©±åŠ¨æ¿€æ³¢ä¼ æ’­çš„å½±å“

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.00747

arXiv:2411.00747v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Propagation of interplanetary (IP) shocks, particularly those driven by coronal mass ejections (CMEs), is still an outstanding question in heliophysics and space weather forecasting. Here we address effects of the ambient solar wind on the propagation of two similar CME-driven shocks from the Sun to Earth. The two shock events (CME03: April 3, 2010 and CME12: July 12, 2012) have the following properties: Both events (1) were driven by a halo CME (i.e., source location is near the Sun-Earth line), (2) had a CME source in the southern hemisphere, (3) had a similar transit time (~2 days) to Earth, (4) occurred in a non-quiet solar period, and (5) led to a severe geomagnetic storm. The initial (near the Sun) propagation speed, as measured by coronagraph images, was slower (by ~300 km/s) for CME03 than CME12, but it took about the same amount of traveling time for both events to reach Earth. According to the in-situ solar wind observations from the Wind spacecraft, the CME03-driven shock was associated with a faster solar wind upstream of the shock than the CME12-driven shock. This is also demonstrated in our global MHD simulations. Analysis of our simulation result indicates that the drag force indirectly plays an important role in the shock propagation. The present study suggests that in addition to the initial CME propagation speed near the Sun the shock speed (in the inertial frame) and the ambient solar wind condition, in particular the solar wind speed, are the key to timing the arrival of CME-driven-shock events.


---
# The role of electronic excited states in the spin-lattice relaxation of spin-1/2 molecules

## ç”µå­æ¿€å‘æ€åœ¨è‡ªæ—‹1/2åˆ†å­çš„è‡ªæ—‹-æ™¶æ ¼å¼›è±«ä¸­çš„ä½œç”¨

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.01380

arXiv:2407.01380v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Magnetic resonance is a prime method for the study of chemical and biological structures and their dynamical processes. The interpretation of many of these experiments relies on understanding how the spin of unpaired electrons exchanges energy with their environment, or lattice, and relaxes to equilibrium. In this work, we overcome the common use of effective spin Hamiltonians to describe spin-lattice relaxation in spin-1/2 and apply ab initio open quantum systems theory to their full molecular electronic wavefunction. Simulations for two Cr(V) coordination compounds under this framework show a dramatic improvement in accuracy and demonstrate that relaxation in spin-1/2 molecules is enabled by virtual transitions to molecular excited states with energy approaching 20,000 cm$^{-1}$. This work establishes a connection between the original theory of Van Vleck and modern electronic structure methods, ultimately exemplifying the urgency of further advancing an ab initio approach to spin-lattice relaxation.


---
# Effective Magnetic Switching of THz Signal in Planar Structured Spintronic Emitters

## å¹³é¢ç»“æ„è‡ªæ—‹ç”µå­å‘å°„å™¨ä¸­THzä¿¡å·çš„æœ‰æ•ˆç£åˆ‡æ¢

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.21623

arXiv:2407.21623v4 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We demonstrate an efficient swithcable spintronic THz emission from a Co(2nm)/Pt(2nm) bilayer split into a grating of micro- or nanostripes in applied external magnetic field of the order of 10mT. The THz signal is effectively emitted if the samples are magnetized perpendicular to the stripes direction and decreases upon a 90-degree rotation of a sample. The maximal 27-fold ratio of amplitude change is achieved for the sample with a $2 \mu m$ width of stripes. For the samples with easy magnetization axis directed perpendicular to stripes the THz signal is linearly polarized in the direction of the stripes and abruptly switches during the sample re-magnetization process. If the easy axis is along the stripes the THz source is almost switched off in a zero magnetic field.


---
# Impact of High Intensity Long-Duration Continuous Auroral Electrojet Activity (HILDCAAs) on relativistic electrons of the radiation belt of Earth during Van Allen probe era

## é«˜å¼ºåº¦é•¿æ—¶é—´è¿ç»­æå…‰ç”µå°„æµæ´»åŠ¨ (HILDCAAs) å¯¹èŒƒè‰¾ä¼¦æ¢é’ˆæ—¶ä»£åœ°çƒè¾å°„å¸¦ç›¸å¯¹è®ºç”µå­çš„å½±å“

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.20442

arXiv:2410.20442v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: This study investigates the impact of High-intensity Long-Duration Continuous Auroral Electrojet Activity (HILDCAA) on the relativistic electrons in radiation belt of Earth. Utilizing data from Van Allen Probe mission of NASA, we conducted a comprehensive statistical analysis to understand the impact of HILDCAA events on the radiation belt fluxes. The super epoch analysis was carried out to determine the general response of L-shell, pitch angle, and energy-dependency of relativistic electrons to HILDCAAs. The analysis reveals a significant flux enhancement in the relativistic electron fluxes, predominantly occurring with a delay of 0 to 2 days following the onset of HILDCAA events. The general response indicates that the maximum energy of accelerated electrons reaches up to 6 MeV. Additionally, electrons with perpendicular pitch angles exhibit a significantly greater enhancement in flux and achieve higher maximum acceleration energies compared to those with parallel pitch angles. The observed time-delayed and pitch angle-dependent response related to the onset of HILDCAAs highlights the significant influence of wave-particle interactions, particularly in relation to ultra-low frequency (ULF) waves in this context. This is further supported by ground-based magnetometers and in-situ magnetic field observations from the RBSP probe, which demonstrated enhanced power of ULF waves during HILDCAA events. The study strengthens our current understanding of radiation belt particle acceleration processes and has potential implications for satellite operations and other space-based technologies, both on Earth and in the magnetospheres of other planets.


---
# Investigating the Magnetocaloric Effect of GdGaAl Alloys Using Mean-Field Theory

## ç”¨å¹³å‡åœºç†è®ºç ”ç©¶GdGaAlåˆé‡‘çš„ç£çƒ­æ•ˆåº”

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5307049/latest

In this paper, we investigated the magnetocaloric properties and magnetic parameters of GdGa1&thinsp;&minus;&thinsp;xAlx (0&le;ğ‘¥&le;0.5) &amp;nbsp;alloys using mean-field theory. The magnetization, exchange field, and magnetic entropy change are examined to understand how partial substitution of Ga with Al affects these properties. The magnetocaloric effect (MCE) shows promising results, with maximum entropy changes of 3.40, 2.94, and 4.20 J&middot;kgâ»&sup1;&middot;Kâ»&sup1; under 0&ndash;2 T change magnetic field for x=0, 0.3, and 0.5, respectively. The temperature-averaged entropy change (ğ‘‡ğ¸ğ¶) values remain stable across a wide temperature range, making these materials suitable for refrigeration applications. The highest ğ‘‡ğ¸ğ¶ of 9.50 J&middot;kgâ»&sup1;&middot;Kâ»&sup1; is observed for the x&thinsp;=&thinsp;0.5 alloy, indicating enhanced magnetocaloric performance with higher Al content.


---
# Enhanced magnetic activity in rapidly rotating binary stars

## å¿«é€Ÿæ—‹è½¬åŒæ˜Ÿçš„ç£æ´»åŠ¨å¢å¼º

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5147855/latest

The interaction between convective motions and rotation in cool stars results in a dynamo process that drives magnetic surface activity1, 2. In single stars, activity increases with rotation rate until it saturates for stars with rotation periods Prot &amp;lt; 3&ndash;10 d3, 4, 5. The mechanism responsible for saturation, however, remains unclear. Observations indicate that red giants in binary systems that are in spin-orbit resonance exhibit stronger chromospheric activity than single stars with similar rotation rates6, 7, 8, suggesting that tidal flows can influence surface activity. Here, we investigate the chromospheric activity of main-sequence binary stars to understand the impact of tidal forces on saturation phenomena. For binaries with 0.5 &amp;lt; Prot/d &amp;lt; 1, mainly contact binaries sharing a common thermal envelope, we find enhanced activity rather than saturation. This result supports theoretical predictions that a large-scale &alpha; &minus; &omega; dynamo during common envelope evolution can generate strong magnetic fields9, 10, 11, 12. We also observe supersaturation in chromospheric activity, a phenomenon tentatively noted previously in coronal activity13, 4, where activity levels fall below saturation and decrease with shorter rotation periods. Our findings emphasise the importance of studying stellar activity in stars with extreme properties compared to the Sun&rsquo;s.

