# Magnetically programmed diffractive robotics

## 磁编程衍射机器人

Link: https://www.science.org/doi/abs/10.1126/science.adr2177?af=R

Science, Volume 386, Issue 6725, Page 1031-1037, November 2024. <br />


---
# Planar Hall Plateau in magnetic Weyl semimetals

## 磁性Weyl半金属中的平面霍尔高原

Link: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2095927324008326?dgcid=rss_sd_all

<p>Publication date: Available online 22 November 2024</p><p><b>Source:</b> Science Bulletin</p><p>Author(s): Lei Li, Chaoxi Cui, Run-Wu Zhang, Zhi-Ming Yu, Yugui Yao</p>


---
# Perspectives on antiferromagnetic magnonics

## 关于反铁磁磁子的观点

Link: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2095927324006418?dgcid=rss_sd_all

<p>Publication date: 15 November 2024</p><p><b>Source:</b> Science Bulletin, Volume 69, Issue 21</p><p>Author(s): Hanchen Wang, Haiming Yu</p>


---
# Giant Topological Hall Effect and Colossal Magnetoresistance in Heusler Ferromagnet near Room Temperature

## Heusler铁磁体在室温附近的巨拓扑霍尔效应和巨磁阻

Link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202411240?af=R

Advanced Materials, EarlyView.


---
# Magnetic Miniature Soft Robot with Reprogrammable Drug‐Dispensing Functionalities: Toward Advanced Targeted Combination Therapy

## 具有可重新编程的配药功能的磁性微型软机器人: 走向先进的靶向联合治疗

Link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202408750?af=R

Advanced Materials, Volume 36, Issue 48, November 27, 2024.


---
# Durable Photo‐Pyroelectric Detection in a Diamine‐Constructed Lead‐Free Hybrid Perovskite Ferroelectric

## 在二胺构造的无铅杂化钙钛矿铁电体中进行持久的光电检测

Link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202409245?af=R

Advanced Materials, Volume 36, Issue 48, November 27, 2024.


---
# Insulator‐to‐Metal Transition and Isotropic Gigantic Magnetoresistance in Layered Magnetic Semiconductors

## 层状磁性半导体中的绝缘体-金属过渡和各向同性巨磁阻

Link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202410655?af=R

Advanced Materials, Volume 36, Issue 48, November 27, 2024.


---
# Ultrahigh Energy‐Storage in Dual‐Phase Relaxor Ferroelectric Ceramics

## 双相弛豫铁电陶瓷中的超高储能

Link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202410088?af=R

Advanced Materials, Volume 36, Issue 48, November 27, 2024.


---
# Magnetic Miniature Soft Robot with Reprogrammable Drug‐Dispensing Functionalities: Toward Advanced Targeted Combination Therapy (Adv. Mater. 48/2024)

## 具有可重新编程的配药功能的磁性微型软机器人: 走向先进的靶向联合治疗 (Adv. Mater. 48/2024)

Link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202470387?af=R

Advanced Materials, Volume 36, Issue 48, November 27, 2024.


---
# Localized obstructed pairs with zero superfluid stiffness from doping an antiferromagnetic insulator

## 通过掺杂反铁磁绝缘体而具有零超流体刚度的局部阻塞对

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17815

arXiv:2411.17815v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Magnetic interactions play an important role in the pairing mechanism of strongly correlated superconductors, many of which share the layered oxide structure characteristic of the cuprate, nickelate, osmate, cobaltate, ruthenate, iridate family of high-temperature superconductors. We explore the consequences of strong magnetic interactions in a lattice model of strongly-interacting d-electrons separated by weakly-interacting p-electrons. In contrast with conventional t-J models where magnetic exchange emerges in the strong-coupling expansion of Hubbard-type models, in this framework Coulomb blockade emerges in the strong-coupling limit of spin-spin interactions. This results in an insulator at fractional filling without Hubbard interactions. Doping this correlated insulator creates localized Cooper pairs that live on the edges of a square lattice, with a d-wave form-factor. They realize the flat-band eigenfunction of the checkerboard lattice Hamiltonian, and have zero kinetic energy. We present a mean-field theory of superconductivity interpolating between this interaction-localized strong-pairing limit with d-wave Bose-Einstein condensation and a weak-pairing limit with a nodal Fermi surface gap, where the superfluid stiffness scale is controlled by the electron hopping integrals and the density, as usual. The pair wavefunction connects d-wave and s-wave molecular orbitals, so that the intra-band gap on the Fermi surface is parametrically smaller than the off-shell inter-band gap. We provide experimental predictions for this scenario of local pairing on link-orbitals, and strong incentive for ab-initio calculation of the relevant local energy scales in the strongly correlated materials tied together by the structural motif of ligands on links.


---
# Probing topological degeneracy on a torus using superconducting altermagnets

## 使用超导高磁探测圆环上的拓扑简并性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17964

arXiv:2411.17964v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The notion of topological order (TO) can be defined through the characteristic ground state degeneracy of a system placed on a manifold with non-zero genus $g$, such as a torus. This ground state degeneracy has served as a key tool for identifying TOs in theoretical calculations but it has never been possible to probe experimentally because fabricating a device in the requisite toroidal geometry is generally not feasible. Here we discuss a practical method that can be used to overcome this difficulty in a class of topologically ordered systems that consist of a TO and its time reversal conjugate $\overline{\rm TO}$. The key insight is that a system possessing such ${\rm TO}\otimes\overline{\rm TO}$ order fabricated on an annulus behaves effectively as TO on a torus, provided that one supplies a symmetry-breaking perturbation that gaps out the edge modes. We illustrate this general principle using a specific example of a spin-polarized $p_x\pm ip_y$ chiral superconductor which is closely related to the Moore-Read Pfaffian fractional quantum Hall state. Specifically, we introduce a simple model with altermagnetic normal state which, in the presence of an attractive interaction, hosts a helical $(p_x-ip_y)^\uparrow\otimes(p_x+ip_y)^\downarrow$ superconducting ground state. We demonstrate that when placed on an annulus with the appropriate symmetry-breaking edge perturbation this planar two-dimensional system, remarkably, exhibits the same pattern of ground state degeneracy as a $p_x+ ip_y$ superconductor on a torus. We discuss broader implications of this behavior and ways it can be tested experimentally.


---
# Selective synthesis of large-area monolayer tin sulfide from simple substances

## 从简单物质选择性合成大面积单层硫化锡

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18034

arXiv:2411.18034v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Both tin monosulfide (SnS) and tin disulfide (SnS2) are thermodynamically stable layered materials with potential for spin-valleytronic devices and photodetectors. Notably, monolayer SnS, owing to its low symmetry, exhibits interesting properties such as ferroelectricity, shift-current, and a persistent spin helix state in the monolayer limit. However, creating atomic-thickness crystals of SnS is challenging owing to the enhanced interlayer interactions caused by lone pair electrons, unlike to SnS2. Here, we demonstrate that p-type SnS can be selectively grown by simply varying the sulfur vapor concentration relative to tin using single-element precursors. We show that monolayer SnS crystals, up to several tens of micrometers in lateral scale, can be easily and safely obtained by high-temperature etching of bulk SnS in a pure nitrogen gas atmosphere. These findings pave the way for device applications based on high-quality tin sulfide.


---
# Structural and magnetic characterization of CeTa$_7$O$_{19}$ and YbTa$_7$O$_{19}$ with two-dimensional pseudospin-1/2 triangular lattice

## 二维pseudospin-1/2三角晶格CeTa $_7 $ O $_{ 19}$ 和YbTa $_7 $ O $_{19}$ 的结构和磁性特征

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18045

arXiv:2411.18045v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Triangular lattice antiferromagnets are prototypes for frustrated magnetism and may potentially realize novel quantum magnetic states such as a quantum spin liquid ground state. A recent work suggests NdTa$_7$O$_{19}$ with rare-earth triangular lattice is a quantum spin liquid candidate and highlights the large family of rare-earth heptatantalates as a framework for quantum magnetism investigation. In this paper, we report the structural and magnetic characterization of CeTa$_7$O$_{19}$ and YbTa$_7$O$_{19}$. Both compounds are isostructural to NdTa$_7$O$_{19}$ with no detectable structural disorder. For CeTa$_7$O$_{19}$, the crystal field energy levels and parameters are determined by inelastic neutron scattering measurements. Based on the crystal field result, the magnetic susceptibility data could be well fitted and explained, which reveals that CeTa$_7$O$_{19}$ is a highly anisotropic Ising triangular-lattice antiferromagnet ($g_z$/$g_{xy}$$\sim$3) with very weak exchange interaction (J$\sim$0.22~K). For YbTa$_7$O$_{19}$, millimeter sized single crystals could be grown. The anisotropic magnetization and electron spin resonance data show that YbTa$_7$O$_{19}$ has a contrasting in-plane magnetic anisotropy with $g_z$/$g_{xy}$$\sim$0.67 similar as that of YbMgGaO$_4$. The above results indicate that CeTa$_7$O$_{19}$ and YbTa$_7$O$_{19}$ with pseudospin-1/2 ground states might either be quantum spin liquid candidate materials or find applications in adiabatic demagnetization refrigeration due to the weak exchange interaction.


---
# Half-metallic to ferromagnetic phase transition in CrSH monolayer using DFT+U and BO-MD calculations

## 使用DFT U和bo-md计算CrSH单层中的半金属到铁磁相变

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18119

arXiv:2411.18119v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We present a comprehensive investigation of the structural, electronic, magnetic, and vibrational properties of CrSH monolayers in the 1T and 2H phases using density functional theory (DFT)+U calculations with a converged Hubbard U value of 5.54 eV and Born-Oppenheimer molecular dynamics (BO-MD) simulations. The ferromagnetic (FM) 1T-CrSH phase is found to be dynamically and thermodynamically stable, exhibiting semiconducting behavior with a band gap of 1.1 eV and a magnetic moment of 3.0 $\mu$B per Cr atom. On the other hand, the 2H-CrSH phase is a half-metallic (HM) phase. We found that it is a metastable phase and undergoes a rapid phase transition to the 1T phase under finite temperature at 300 K. Phonon calculations, performed using the finite displacement method and corrected for rotational invariance corrections with Huang and Born-Huang sum rules, resolve spurious imaginary frequencies in the flexural ZA phonon mode near the $\Gamma$-point, ensuring physical accuracy. These findings establish CrSH monolayers as promising candidates for spintronic and valleytronic applications, with tunable electronic properties enabled by phase engineering.


---
# Quantum annealing of a frustrated magnet

## 受挫磁体的量子退火

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18167

arXiv:2411.18167v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Quantum annealing, which involves quantum tunnelling among possible solutions, has state-of-the-art applications not only in quickly finding the lowest-energy configuration of a complex system, but also in quantum computing. Here we report a single-crystal study of the frustrated magnet $\alpha$-CoV$_2$O$_6$, consisting of a triangular arrangement of ferromagnetic Ising spin chains without evident structural disorder. We observe quantum annealing phenomena resulting from time-reversal symmetry breaking in a tiny transverse field. Below $\sim$ 1 K, the system exhibits no indication of approaching the lowest-energy state for at least 15 hours in zero transverse field, but quickly converges towards that configuration with a nearly temperature-independent relaxation time of $\sim$ 10 seconds in a transverse field of $\sim$ 3.5 mK. Our many-body simulations show qualitative agreement with the experimental results, and suggest that a tiny transverse field can profoundly enhance quantum spin fluctuations, triggering rapid quantum annealing process from topological metastable Kosterlitz-Thouless phases, at low temperatures.


---
# mumax+: extensible GPU-accelerated micromagnetics and beyond

## mumax: 可扩展的GPU加速微磁学及其他

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18194

arXiv:2411.18194v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We present the design and verification of mumax+, an extensible GPUaccelerated micromagnetic simulator with a Python user interface. It is a general solver for the space- and time-dependent evolution of the magnetization and related vector quantities, using a finite-difference discretization. In this work, we test the new features of mumax+, which are antiferromagnetism and elasticity, against several theoretical models including a dispersion relation for (elastic) antiferromagnets.


---
# Pseudo-Majorana Functional Renormalization for Frustrated XXZ-Z Spin-1/2 Models

## Xxz-z Spin-1/2模型的伪Majorana功能重整化

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18198

arXiv:2411.18198v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The numerical study of high-dimensional frustrated quantum magnets remains a challenging problem. Here we present an extension of the pseudo-Majorana functional renormalization group to spin-1/2 XXZ type Hamiltonians with field or magnetization along spin-Z direction at finite temperature. We consider a $U(1)$ symmetry-adapted fermionic spin representation and derive the diagrammatic framework and its renormalization group flow equations. We discuss benchmark results and application to two anti-ferromagnetic triangular lattice materials recently studied in experiments with applied magnetic fields: First, we numerically reproduce the magnetization data measured for CeMgAl$_{11}$O$_{19}$ confirming model parameters previously estimated from inelastic neutron spectrum in high fields. Second, we showcase the accuracy of our method by studying the thermal phase transition into the spin solid up-up-down phase of Na$_2$BaCo(PO$_4$)$_2$ in good agreement with experiment.


---
# Spectroscopy of the spin waves of a synthetic antiferromagnet grown on a piezoelectric substrate

## 在压电衬底上生长的合成反铁磁体的自旋波的光谱

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18202

arXiv:2411.18202v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Efficient coupling between magnons and phonons requires material platforms that contain magnetic multilayers with versatile high-frequency properties grown on piezoelectric substrates with large electromechanical coupling coefficients. One of these systems is the CoFeB/Ru/CoFeB Synthetic antiferromagnet grown on Lithium Niobate substrate. We investigate its microwave magnetic properties using a combination of ferromagnetic resonance and propagating spin wave spectroscopy, from which we extract the dispersion relation of the acoustic branch of spin waves. The frequency and the linewidth of this spin wave resonance, its field dependence and its dispersion relation indicate that the magnetic properties are as good as when grown on standard non-piezoelectric substrates, as well as being in line with theory. This new material platform opens opportunities to extend microwave acousto-magnonics beyond the use of single layer magnets.


---
# Observation of Yu-Shiba-Rusinov-like states at the edge of CrBr3/NbSe2 heterostructure

## 观察CrBr3/NbSe2异质结构边缘的yu-shiba-rusinov态

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18227

arXiv:2411.18227v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The hybrid ferromagnet-superconductor heterostructures have attracted extensive attention as they potentially host topological superconductivity. Relevant experimental signatures have recently been reported in CrBr3/NbSe2 ferromagnet-superconductor heterostructure, but controversies remain. Here, we reinvestigate CrBr3/NbSe2 by an ultralow temperature scanning tunneling microscope with higher spatial and energy resolutions. We find that the single-layer CrBr3 film is insulating and acts likely as a vacuum barrier, the measured superconducting gap and vortex state on it are nearly the same as those of NbSe2 substrate. Meanwhile, in-gap features are observed at the edges of CrBr3 island, which display either a zero-energy conductance peak or a pair of particle-hole symmetric bound states. They are discretely distributed at the edges of CrBr3 film, and their appearance is found closely related to the atomic lattice reconstruction near the edges. By increasing tunneling transmissivity, the zero-energy conductance peak quickly splits, while the pair of nonzero in-gap bound states first approach each other, merge, and then split again. These behaviors are unexpected for Majorana edge modes, but in consistent with the conventional Yu-Shiba-Rusinov states. Our results provide critical information for further understanding the interfacial coupling in CrBr3/NbSe2 heterostructure.


---
# Gate-tunable Exchange Bias and Voltage-controlled Magnetization Switching in a van der Waals Ferromagnet

## 范德华铁磁体中的栅极可调交换偏置和压控磁化切换

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18278

arXiv:2411.18278v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The discovery of van der Waals magnets has established a new domain in the field of magnetism, opening novel pathways for the electrical control of magnetic properties. In this context, Fe3GeTe2 (FGT) emerges as an exemplary candidate owing to its intrinsic metallic properties, which facilitate the interplay of both charge and spin degrees of freedom. Here, the bidirectional voltage control of exchange bias (EB) effect in a perpendicularly magnetized all-van der Waals FGT/O-FGT/hBN heterostructure is demonstrated. The antiferromagnetic O-FGT layer is formed by naturally oxidizing the FGT surface. The observed EB magnitude reaches 1.4 kOe with a blocking temperature (150 K) reaching close to the Curie temperature of FGT. Both the exchange field and the blocking temperature values are among the highest in the context of layered materials. The EB modulation exhibits a linear dependence on the gate voltage and its polarity, observable in both positive and negative field cooling (FC) experiments. Additionally, gate voltage-controlled magnetization switching, highlighting the potential of FGT-based heterostructures is demonstrated in advanced spintronic devices. These findings display a methodology to modulate the magnetism of van der Waals magnets offering new avenues for the development of high-performance magnetic devices.


---
# Anisotropic, multiband, and strong-coupling superconductivity of the Pb0.64Bi0.36 alloy

## Pb0.64Bi0.36合金的各向异性，多带和强耦合超导性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18315

arXiv:2411.18315v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: This paper presents theoretical and experimental studies on the superconductivity of Pb${_{0.64}}$Bi$_{0.36}$ alloy, which is a prototype of strongly coupled superconductors and exhibits the strongest coupling under ambient pressure among the materials studied so far. The critical temperature, the specific heat in the superconducting state, and the magnetic critical fields are experimentally determined. Deviations from the single-gap s-wave BCS-like behavior are observed. The electronic structure, phonons and electron-phonon interactions are analyzed in relation to the metallic Pb, explaining why the Pb-Bi alloy exhibits such a large value of the electron-phonon coupling parameter $\lambda \simeq 2$. Superconductivity is studied using the isotropic Eliashberg formalism as well as the anisotropic density functional theory for superconductors. We find that while Pb is a two-gap superconductor with well-defined separate superconducting gaps, in the Pb-Bi alloy an overlapped three-gap-like structure is formed with a strong anisotropy. Furthermore, the chemical disorder, inherent to this alloy, leads to strong electron scattering, which is found to reduce the critical temperature.


---
# Field-free Josephson diode effect in interacting chiral quantum dot junctions

## 相互作用手性量子点结中的无场约瑟夫森二极管效应

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18325

arXiv:2411.18325v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We investigate chiral quantum dot (QD)-based Josephson junction and show the correlation-induced Josephson diode effect (JDE) in it. The presence of electron-electron interaction spontaneously creates an imbalance between up- and down-spin electrons during the non-equilibrium transport making the QD effectively magnetic. The simultaneous presence of the chirality and the interaction eventually results in the field-free JDE in our chiral QD junction. We employ the Keldysh non-equilibrium Green's function technique to study the behavior of the Josephson current (JC) and the rectification coefficient (RC) of our Josephson diode (JD). We show a sign-changing behavior of the RC with the Coulomb correlation and the lead-to-dot coupling strength and find the maximum magnitude of the RC $\sim 72\%$ for moderate interaction strength. Our proposed field-free Josephson diode (JD) based on interacting chiral QD may be a potential switching component in superconductor based devices.


---
# Chemo-Structural Disorder in the kagom\'e spin $S$ = 1/2 systems ZnCu$_3$(OH)$_6$Cl$_2$ and YCu$_3$(OH)$_{6}$Br$_{2}$[Br$_x$(OH)$_{1-x}$]

## kagom自旋 $ S $ = 1/2系统ZnCu $_3 $(OH)$_6 $ Cl $_2 $ 和YCu $_3 $(OH)$_{6}$ B r $_{2}$[B r $ _x $ (哦) $_{1-x}$]

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18331

arXiv:2411.18331v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: By single crystal diffraction we characterize the chemo-structural disorder introduced by Zn-Cu site mixing in the kagom\'e spin $S$-1/2 systems herbertsmithite ZnCu$_3$(OH)$_6$Cl$_2$ and YCu$_3$(OH)$_{6}$Br$_{2}$[Br$_x$(OH)$_{1-x}$]. For an untwinned single crystal of herbertsmithite of composition Zn$_{0.95(1)}$Cu$_{2.99(3)}$O$_{5.9(1)}$H$_{5.8(1)}$Cl$_2$ we find substitution by Cu of the Zn atoms in the layers separating the kagom\'e layers as well as substantial Zn substitution for Cu in the kagom\'e layers. In YCu$_3$(OH)$_{6}$Br$_{2}$[Br$_x$(OH)$_{1-x}$] site mixing disorder is present for intermediate $x$. Analogous to the Cl homologous system in crystals with $x = 1/3$ disorder is absent and a low-temperature structural transition emerges driven by strong magneto-phonon coupling as a release of frustration. Apart from this structural anomaly we find the physical properties of these crystals unchanged compared to intermediate $x$ and closely resembling the Cl homologue where long-range magnetic order was observed.


---
# Stability and Dynamics of Skyrmion and Skyrmion Bags Explored under the Influence of Out-of-Plane Strain and Its Gradient

## 在平面应变及其梯度的影响下探索Skyrmion和Skyrmion袋的稳定性和动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18332

arXiv:2411.18332v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Skyrmions as well as skyrmion bags in magnetic thin films are promising candidates for future high-density memory devices. The observation of skyrmion bags in liquid crystals and their predicted existence in ferromagnetic films has sparked theoretical studies on current induced dynamics of these topological charges. Here using micromagnetism, we study the impact of out of plane strain on the stability of skyrmion and skyrmion bags in ferromagnetic thin film. We further studied the current induced dynamics in the presence of out of plane strain gradient. We demonstrate that out of plane strain gradient direction with respect to the electron flow can be an efficient way to control the dynamics of topological charges. Specifically, the deflection of skyrmion bags correlates with their topological degree, and an appropriate strain gradient can counteract skyrmion Hall effects, enabling straight-line movement. Our micromagnetic simulations align well with theoretical predictions from the Thiele equation.


---
# Critical behavior of the Ising model on square-triangle tilings

## 伊辛模型在方形三角形上的临界行为

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18338

arXiv:2411.18338v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We investigate magnetic properties of the ferromagnetic Ising model on square-triangle tilings to explore how the hyperuniformity, which characterizes long-range behavior of the point pattern, influences critical phenomena where long-range correlations play a crucial role. The square-triangle tilings are spatially random structures in two dimensions constructed by densely packing the plane with squares and triangles. The growth rule with a parameter $p$ proposed in our previous paper enables systematic generations of hyperuniform, nonhyperuniform, and antihyperuniform tilings. Classical Monte Carlo simulations of the Ising model on these tilings show that critical behavior always belongs to the two-dimensional Ising universality class. It is clarified that the critical temperature is higher for the tiling with higher regularity in terms of hyperuniformity. Critical phenomena in the Ising models on the periodic and quasiperiodic tilings composed of the square and triangle tiles are also addressed.


---
# Spin-noise spectroscopy as a tool for probing magnetic order

## 自旋噪声光谱作为探测磁序的工具

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18342

arXiv:2411.18342v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Spin noise spectroscopy is a technique to measure magnetization fluctuations, a subject of increasing relevance in ultrafast spintronics. We investigate numerically the equilibrium spin noise of ferro- and antiferromagnets within an atomistic spin model. The aim is to predict the possible outcomes of ultrafast spin-noise spectroscopy measurements and demonstrate what relevant information can be extracted. Specifically, we show how this method can be used to determine phase transitions, frequencies of magnon modes and correlation times.


---
# Second-order correlation and squeezing of photons in cavities with ultrastrong magnon-photon interactions

## 具有超强磁振子-光子相互作用的腔中光子的二阶关联和压缩

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18512

arXiv:2411.18512v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We investigate the second-order photon correlation function in cavity-magnon systems, focusing on ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic cavities within the ultra-strong coupling regime, and extending beyond the rotating-wave approximation. By deriving exact integral solutions for the second-order correlation function, we demonstrate that counter-rotating magnon-photon interactions induce quadrature squeezing in the cavity mode. Furthermore, we show that tuning the anisotropic magnon-cavity couplings enhance the squeezing effect by changing the level repulsion of the magnon-cavity photon hybrid mode without increasing cavity photon occupation number. Our study reveals distinct quantum correlation behaviors in ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic cavities: For ferromagnetic cavities, we show that squeezing increases with coupling strength asymmetry, whereas in antiferromagnetic case, magnon modes with opposite chirality suppress quantum effects and imposes a lower bound on correlation functions. These findings provide a pathway to optimize photon blockade and quantum information processing in magnon-cavity systems in the ultrastrong coupling limit.


---
# Topological Magnons on the Ferromagnetic Zigzag Lattice

## 铁磁锯齿形晶格上的拓扑磁振子

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18515

arXiv:2411.18515v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Motivated by the experimental identification of magnetic compounds consisting of zigzag chains, we analyze the band structure topology of magnons in ferromagnets on a zigzag lattice. We account for the general lattice geometry by including spatially anisotropic Heisenberg exchange interactions and by Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction on inversion asymmetric bonds. Within the linear spin-wave theory, we find two magnon branches, whose band structure topology (i.e., Chern numbers) we map out in a comprehensive phase diagram. Notably, besides topologically trivial and gapless phases, we identify topologically nontrivial phases that support chiral edge magnons. We show that these edge states are robust against elastic defect scattering.


---
# Spin liquid properties of the kagome material Cu$_3$(HOTP)$_2$

## kagome材料Cu $_3 $(HOTP)$_2 $ 的自旋液体特性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18518

arXiv:2411.18518v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The metal-organic-framework (MOF) compound Cu$_3$(HOTP)$_2$, a.k.a. Cu$_3$(HHTP)$_2$, is a small-gap semiconductor containing a kagome lattice of antiferromagnetically coupled $S$=1/2 Cu$^\mathrm{II}$ spins with intra-layer nearest-neighbor exchange coupling $J \sim $ 2 K. The intra-layer $J$ value obtained from DFT+U calculations is shown to match with the experimental value for reasonable values of U. Muon spin relaxation confirms no magnetic ordering down to 50~mK and sees spin fluctuations diffusing on a 2D lattice, consistent with a quantum spin liquid (QSL) ground state being present within highly decoupled kagome layers. Reduction of the spin diffusion rate on cooling from the paramagnetic region to the low-temperature QSL region reflects quantum entanglement. It is also found that the layers become more strongly decoupled in the low-temperature QSL region. Comparison of results for the spin diffusion, magnetic susceptibility and specific heat in the QSL region suggests close proximity to a quantum critical point and a large density of low energy spinless electronic excitations. A Z$_2$-linear Dirac model for the spin excitations of the QSL is found to provide the best match with experiment.


---
# Magnetic field tuned superconducting and normal phase magnetism in CeCo$_{0.5}$Rh$_{0.5}$In$_{5}$

## CeCo中磁场调谐超导和正相磁性 $_{ 0.5}$ Rh $_{ 0.5}$ in $_{ 5}$

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18540

arXiv:2411.18540v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: By tuning superconductivity with an applied magnetic field, we use neutrons to compare the magnetic ordered phases in superconducting and normal states of CeCo$_{0.5}$Rh$_{0.5}$In$_{5}$. At zero field, CeCo$_{0.5}$Rh$_{0.5}$In$_{5}$ displays both superconductivity ($T_{c}$=1.3 K) and spatially long-ranged commensurate $\uparrow\downarrow\uparrow\downarrow$ antiferromagnetism ($T_{N}$=2.5 K, $\vec{Q}_{0}=({1\over 2}, {1\over 2}, {1\over 2})$). Neutron spectroscopy fails to measure propagating magnetic excitations with only temporally overdamped fluctuations observable. On applying a magnetic field we find anisotropic behavior in the static magnetism. When the field is along the crystallographic $c$-axis, no change in the static magnetic response is observable. However when the field is oriented within the $a-b$ plane, an increase in $T_{N}$ and change in the critical response are measured. At low temperatures in the superconducting phase, the elastic magnetic intensity increases linearly ($\propto |H|$) with small $a-b$ oriented fields. However, this trend is interrupted at intermediate fields where commensurate block $\uparrow\uparrow\downarrow\downarrow$ magnetism with propagation vector $\vec{Q}=({1\over 2}, {1\over 2}, {1\over 4})$ forms. For large applied fields in the [1 $\overline{1}$ 0] direction which completely suppresses superconductivity, weakly incommensurate magnetic order along $L$ is observed to replace the commensurate response present in the superconducting and vortex phases. We suggest field-induced incommensurate static magnetism, present in the normal state of superconducting and antiferromagnetic CeCo$_{0.5}$Rh$_{0.5}$In$_{5}$ for $a-b$ plane oriented magnetic fields. We speculate that these field dependent properties are tied to the field induced anisotropy associated with the local Ce$^{3+}$ crystal field environment of the tetragonal `115' structure.


---
# Fermi surface and pseudogap in highly doped Sr$_{2}$IrO$_{4}$

## 高掺杂S r $_{2}$ IrO $_{4}$ 中的费米表面和伪间隙

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18542

arXiv:2411.18542v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The fate of the Fermi surface in bulk electron-doped Sr$_{2}$IrO$_{4}$ remains elusive, as does the origin and extension of its pseudogap phase. Here, we use high-resolution angle-resolved photoelectron spectroscopy (ARPES) to investigate the electronic structure of Sr$_{2-x}$La$_{x}$IrO$_{4}$ up to $x=0.2$, a factor of two higher than in previous work. Our findings reveal that the Fermi surface evolves smoothly with doping. Notably, the antinodal pseudogap persists up to the highest doping level, while nodal quasiparticle coherence increases monotonously. This demonstrates that the sharp increase in Hall carrier density recently observed above $x^{*}=0.16$ [Y.-T. Hsu et al., Nature Physics 20, 1596 (2024)] cannot be attributed to the closure of the pseudogap. Further, we determine a temperature boundary of the pseudogap of $T^{*}\simeq~200~\textrm{K}$ for $x=0.2$, comparable to cuprates. Our results suggest that pseudogaps are a generic feature of doped quasi-2D antiferromagnetic Mott insulators, likely related to short range magnetic correlations.


---
# Preserving SOC for enhancement of spin-to-charge conversion efficiency via Cu intercalation in MoS$_2$/CoFeB heterostructures

## 通过MoS $_2 $/CoFeB异质结构中的Cu嵌入来保持SOC以提高自旋-电荷转换效率

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18582

arXiv:2411.18582v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDs) are a novel type of quantum materials that could be used in spintronics, optoelectronics, valleytronics and opto-valleytronics. The phenomena of spinto-charge conversion at the interface between sputtered magnetic materials and transition metal dichalcogenides have gained attention for designing fast and ultra-low power consumption devices that are applicable for spintronic-based applications. Here, we report a remarkable enhancement of spin-to-charge conversion efficiency in MoS$_2$/CoFeB heterostructures via Cu intercalation. In this context, magneto-optic Kerr effect-based microscopy reveals the absence of substantial domain modification due to Cu which indicates that Cu successfully detaches MoS2 from CoFeB. This shows that Cu interlayer is protecting the spin orbit coupling (SOC) of MoS$_2$ from exchange interaction with CoFeB, since the proximity with local magnetization can alter the electronic structure and hence the SOC. Further, via first-principles calculations, it is found that notable improvements in spin Berry curvature and spin Hall conductivity occur via the Cu intercalation which in turn increases the spin Hall angle. We have shown here that one can modify interfaces of ferromagnet and transition metal dichalcogenides-based heterostructures to achieve higher efficiencies of spin-tocharge conversion across them for extended functionalities and its relevance in spin orbit torquebased applications.


---
# Magnetic-field dependence of spin-phonon relaxation and dephasing due to g-factor fluctuations from first principles

## 从第一性原理的g因子波动引起的自旋声子弛豫和移相的磁场依赖性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18608

arXiv:2411.18608v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Spin relaxation of electrons in materials involve both reversible dephasing and irreversible decoherence processes. Their interplay leads to a complex dependence of spin relaxation times on the direction and magnitude of magnetic fields, relevant for spintronics and quantum information applications. Here, we use real-time first-principles density matrix dynamics simulations to directly simulate Hahn echo measurements, disentangle dephasing from decoherence, and predict T1, T2 and T2* spin lifetimes. We show that g-factor fluctuations lead to non-trivial magnetic field dependence of each of these lifetimes in inversion-symmetric crystals of CsPbBr3 and silicon, even when only intrinsic spin-phonon scattering is present. Most importantly, fluctuations in the off-diagonal components of the g-tensor lead to a strong magnetic field dependence of even the T1 lifetime in silicon. Our calculations elucidate the detailed role of anisotropic g-factors in determining the spin dynamics even in simple, low spin-orbit coupling materials such as silicon.


---
# Robust translational invariance in topological bands against lattice potentials and disorders

## 针对晶格势和无序的拓扑带中的鲁棒平移不变性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.16862

arXiv:2411.16862v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We theoretically show that the continuous magnetic translational invariance within the Hilbert (sub-)space of a single Landau level (LL) can persist even in the presence of a superlattice electrostatic potential modulation, while such invariance is broken in the full real-space Hilbert space. This is due to the interplay of the superlattice constant and the fundamental length scale of the quantum Hall fluids. In particular for the lowest LL (LLL), when the spacing of superlattice is below the magnetic length, continuous magnetic translational symmetry is very robust. For the fractional quantum Hall phases, the continuous translational symmetry is preserved when the superlattice spacing is below the corresponding fundamental lengths which we can now quantitatively define, which is different from the length scale from the quantum metric. Moreover, our analysis implies that the dynamics of the anyonic excitations can be robust against the long wavelength part of the disorder, and we discuss the related experimental ramifications.


---
# Merging high localization and TE-TM polarization degeneracy of guided waves in dielectric metasurfaces

## 合并电介质超表面中导波的高局部化和te-tm极化简并性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17872

arXiv:2411.17872v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: The polarization degree of freedom is an inherent feature of plane waves propagating in an isotropic homogeneous medium. The miniaturization of optical systems leads to the high localization of electromagnetic waves, but also to the loss of polarization control, namely, breaking TE-TM polarization degeneracy. In this work, we discover the near-field polarization degree of freedom for highly localized guided waves propagating along a dielectric metasurface. We demonstrate the opportunity to create a metasurface with the degenerate TE-TM polarization spectrum for the required operating wavelength and different constitutive materials. In particular, we analyze several possible implementations including silicon nitride and ceramic metasurfaces consisting of disk-shaped resonators, and evaluate the impact of substrate. Finally, we experimentally implement one of the metasurface designs and verify its broadband degenerate TE-TM polarization spectrum. The obtained results form a fundamentally new platform for the planar polarization devices utilizing the polarization degree of freedom of localized light.


---
# Detecting Standard Model Gauge Group from Generalized Fractional Quantum Hall Effect

## 从广义分数量子霍尔效应中检测标准模型规范组

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18160

arXiv:2411.18160v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: The Standard Model of particle physics stands as one of the most profound and successful frameworks for describing the fundamental workings of nature. The global form of the Standard Model gauge group, however, remains an open question: it can be $\left(SU(3)_C\times SU(2)_W\times U(1)_Y\right)/\Gamma$ with $\Gamma=1,\mathbb{Z}_2,\mathbb{Z}_3$ or $\mathbb{Z}_6$. The work introduces the fractional topological transport coefficient $\xi$ involving the $U(1)$ B-L symmetry and the $U(1)$ one-form magnetic symmetry of the renormalizable Standard Model, and show that it distinguishes the global form of the Standard Model gauge group. The gauge group is fully determined for specific values of $\xi$, which also depends on the choice of action of the B-L symmetry on the Standard Model known as a fractionalization class. This transport coefficient can be measured in a contact term for the two-point function of the B-L symmetry current with the magnetic one-form symmetry current of the Standard Model. This parallels topological transport in the Fractional Quantum Hall Effect, with quarks and the B-L symmetry playing the role of anyons and the $U(1)$ electromagnetic global symmetry respectively.


---
# Spin shuttling in a silicon double quantum dot

## 硅双量子点中的自旋穿梭

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2007.03598

arXiv:2007.03598v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: The transport of quantum information between different nodes of a quantum device is among the challenging functionalities of a quantum processor. In the context of spin qubits, this requirement can be met by coherent electron spin shuttling between semiconductor quantum dots. Here we theoretically study a minimal version of spin shuttling between two quantum dots. To this end, we analyze the dynamics of an electron during a detuning sweep in a silicon double quantum dot (DQD) occupied by one electron. Possibilities and limitations of spin transport are investigated. Spin-orbit interaction and the Zeeman effect in an inhomogeneous magnetic field play an important role for spin shuttling and are included in our model. Interactions that couple the position, spin and valley degrees of freedom open a number of avoided crossings in the spectrum allowing for diabatic transitions and interfering paths. The outcomes of single and repeated spin shuttling protocols are explored by means of numerical simulations and an approximate analytical model based on the solution of the Landau--Zener problem. We find that a spin infidelity as low as $1-F_s\lesssim 0.002$ with a relatively fast level velocity of $\alpha = 600\, {\mu}$eV/ns is feasible for optimal choices of parameters or by making use of constructive interference.


---
# Proposal for a cavity-induced measurement of the exchange coupling in quantum dots

## 量子点中交换耦合的腔诱导测量的建议

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2202.00797

arXiv:2202.00797v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: In spin qubit arrays the exchange coupling can be harnessed to implement two-qubit gates and to realize intermediate-range qubit connectivity along a spin bus. In this work, we propose a scheme to characterize the exchange coupling between electrons in adjacent quantum dots. We investigate theoretically the transmission of a microwave resonator coupled to a triple quantum dot (TQD) occupied by two electrons. We assume that the right quantum dot (QD) is always occupied by one electron while the second electron can tunnel between the left and center QD. If the two electrons are in adjacent dots they interact via the exchange coupling. By means of analytical calculations we show that the transmission profile of the resonator directly reveals the value of the exchange coupling strength between two electrons. From perturbation theory up to second order we conclude that the exchange can still be identified in the presence of magnetic gradients. A valley splitting comparable to the inter-dot tunnel coupling will lead to further modifications of the cavity transmission dips that also depend on the valley phases.


---
# Quantum Griffiths singularity in a three-dimensional superconductor to Anderson critical insulator transition

## 三维超导体到安德森临界绝缘体过渡中的量子格里菲斯奇异性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.06710

arXiv:2311.06710v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Disorder is ubiquitous in real materials and can have dramatic effects on quantum phase transitions. Originating from the disorder enhanced quantum fluctuation, quantum Griffiths singularity (QGS) has been revealed as a universal phenomenon in quantum criticality of low-dimensional superconductors. However, due to the weak fluctuation effect, QGS is very challenging to detect experimentally in three-dimensional (3D) superconducting systems. Here we report the discovery of QGS associated with the quantum phase transition from 3D superconductor to Anderson critical insulator in a spinel oxide MgTi2O4 (MTO). Under both perpendicular and parallel magnetic field, the dynamical critical exponent diverges when approaching the quantum critical point, demonstrating the existence of 3D QGS. Among 3D superconductors, MTO shows a relatively strong fluctuation effect featured as a wide superconducting transition region. The enhanced fluctuation, which may arise from the mobility edge of Anderson localization, finally leads to the occurrence of 3D quantum phase transition and QGS. Our findings offer a new perspective to understand quantum phase transitions in strongly disordered 3D systems.


---
# Revelation of new magnetic domain wall category and spin-density-wave boundary state in itinerant magnet

## 流动磁体中新的磁畴壁类别和自旋密度波边界状态的启示

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.15999

arXiv:2402.15999v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Conventional magnetic domain walls are typically characterized by the reorientation of local moments. However, what occurs at the boundary of itinerant magnets is largely unknown. Here using spin-sensitive scanning tunneling microscopy, we investigated the microscopic boundaries of spin-density-wave (SDW) state in a prototypical itinerant antiferromagnet - chromium (Cr). At the boundary of two incommensurate SDW domains, we observed that the spins undergo finite-scale decay rather than reorientation, which generated a double-Q SDW state accompanied by a second-order charge modulation. In the commensurate SDW domains, a clear SDW energy gap is observed. The screw dislocations induced "half" vortex and anti-vortex of SDW, paired by antiphase domain wall. We find the spin density vanished at such antiphase domain walls; while for the first time, we observed intriguing SDW in-gap states at the boundary, resembling the Andreev bound states in superconductors. These unique SDW boundary structures can be viewed as consequences of local interference of two SDWs, either with different Q or reversed phases. Our findings thus reveal a new category of magnetic domain wall - the "interference wall", with a mechanism rooted in itinerant nature of the system.


---
# Theory of Tunneling Spectroscopy in Unconventional $p$-wave Magnet-Superconductor Hybrid Structures

## 非常规 $ p $ 波磁体-超导体混合结构中的隧穿光谱理论

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17482

arXiv:2403.17482v4 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We theoretically study the tunneling conductance of a junction consisting of a two-dimensional unconventional $p$-wave magnet (UPM) and a superconductor (SC) for various pairing symmetries. The zero bias conductance peaks arising from the dispersionless surface Andreev bound states (SABSs) in $d_{xy}$-wave and $p_{x}$-wave superconductor junctions are insensitive against varying the magnetic spin-splitting strength $\alpha _{y}$. Moreover, for chiral $p$- or chiral $d$-wave SCs, zero bias conductance shows a non-monotonic change as a function of $\alpha_{y}$ indicating the existence of the dispersive SABSs. Our obtained results of tunneling spectroscopy based on a UPM serve as an effective way for the identification of the pairing symmetries of unconventional superconductors. It is noted that our used Hamiltonian of UPM is also available for persistent spin helix systems.


---
# Growth and characterization of the La$_{3}$Ni$_{2}$O$_{7-\delta}$ thin films: dominant contribution of the $d_{x^{2}-y^{2}}$ orbital at ambient pressure

## La $_{3}$ Ni $_{2}$ O $_{7-\ delta}$ 薄膜的生长和表征: 环境压力下 $ d_{x ^{2}-y ^{2 }}$ 轨道的主导贡献

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.08789

arXiv:2406.08789v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: By using the pulsed-laser-ablation technique, we have successfully grown the La$_{3}$Ni$_{2}$O$_{7-\delta}$ thin films with $c$-axis orientation perpendicular to the film surface. X-ray diffraction shows that the (00l) peaks can be well indexed to the La$_{3}$Ni$_{2}$O$_{7-\delta}$ phase. Resistive measurements show that the samples can be tuned from weak insulating to metallic behavior through adjusting the growth conditions. Surprisingly, all curves of $\rho-T$ in the temperature region of 2$\sim$300~K do not show the anomalies corresponding to either the spin density wave or the charge density wave orders as seen in bulk samples. Hall effect measurements show a linear field dependence with the dominant hole charge carriers, but the Hall coefficient $R_{H}=\rho_{xy}/H$ exhibits strong temperature dependence. The magnetoresistance above about 50~K is positive but very weak, indicating a weakened or absence of multiband effect. However, a negative magnetoresistance is observed at low temperatures, which shows the delocalization effect by magnetic field. Detailed analysis on the magnetoresistance suggests that the delocalization effect at low temperatures is due to the Kondo-like effect, rather than the Anderson weak localization. Our transport results suggest that, the electronic conduction is fulfilled by the $d_{x^{2}-y^{2}}$ orbital with holes as the dominant charge carriers, while the interaction through Hund's coupling with the localized $d_{z^{2}}$ orbital plays an important role in the charge dynamics.


---
# Freely Suspended Nematic and Smectic Films and Free-Standing Smectic Filaments in the Ferroelectric Nematic Realm

## 铁电向列领域中自由悬浮的向列和近晶型薄膜以及独立的近晶型细丝

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.04019

arXiv:2409.04019v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We show that stable, freely suspended liquid crystal films can be made from the ferroelectric nematic ($\mathrm{N_F}$) phase and from the recently discovered polar, lamellar $\mathrm{SmZ_A}$ and $\mathrm{SmA_F}$ phases. The $\mathrm{N_F}$ films display two-dimensional, smectic-like parabolic focal conic textures comprising director/polarization bend that are a manifestation of the electrostatic suppression of director splay in the film plane. In the $\mathrm{SmZ_A}$ and $\mathrm{SmA_F}$ phases, the smectic layers orient preferentially normal to the film surfaces, a condition never found in typical thermotropic or lyotropic lamellar LC phases, with the $\mathrm{SmZ_A}$ films exhibiting focal-conic fan textures mimicking the appearance of typical smectics in glass cells when the layers are oriented normal to the plates, and the $\mathrm{SmA_F}$ films showing a texture of plaquettes of uniform in-plane orientation where both bend and splay are suppressed, separated by grain boundaries. The $\mathrm{SmA_F}$ phase can also be drawn into thin filaments, in which X-ray scattering reveals that the smectic layer planes are normal to the filament axis. Remarkably, the filaments are mechanically stable even if they break, forming free-standing, fluid filaments supported only at one end. The unique architectures of these films and filaments are stabilized by the electrostatic self-interaction of the liquid crystal polarization field, which enables the formation of confined, fluid structures that are fundamentally different from those of their counterparts made using previously known liquid crystal phases.


---
# Entropic magnetic interlayer coupling

## 熵磁层间耦合

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.06446

arXiv:2411.06446v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Nanomagnetism concerns the engineering of magnetic interactions in heterostructures that consist of layers of magnetic and non-magnetic materials. Mostly, these interactions are dominated by the minimization of energy. Here, we propose an effective magnetic interlayer coupling that is dominated by the maximization of entropy. As an example, we consider the system that mediates the effective interactions to be square spin ice, in which case we find purely entropic interactions that are long-ranged. We argue that in the thermodynamic limit the entropic interlayer coupling gives rise to entropic torques on the magnetization direction. For small systems, the physical properties are well characterized by the mutual information between the two magnets that are coupled. Because entropic interactions become stronger for higher temperatures, our findings may benefit the development of nanomagnetic devices that require thermal stability.


---
# Bilayer construction for mixed state phenomena with strong, weak symmetries and symmetry breakings

## 具有强，弱对称性和对称性破坏的混合态现象的双层结构

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.07174

arXiv:2411.07174v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We introduce the bilayer construction, as a specific purification scheme for a general mixed state, where each mixed state has a one-to-one correspondence with a bilayer pure state with two constraints: non-negativity of the bilayer wavefunction; and the presence of an anti-unitary layer-exchange symmetry T. Different from the Choi-Jamio{\l}kowski isomorphism, any mixed state can be realized as the monolayer reduced density matrix of a bilayer pure state, and its physical properties can be experimentally realized and detected in non-magnetic bilayer 2D materials with a layer-exchange mirror symmetry. We study a variety of mixed state phenomena in the bilayer construction: (1) strong and weak symmetries, their explicit and spontaneous breakings in mixed states can be understood as usual Landau-type symmetry breakings in the bilayer pure state, and their criteria can be derived accordingly; (2) decoherence of a pure state by local errors can be mapped to quantum quench dynamics of the bilayer pure states; (3) mixed symmetry protected topological (SPT) states and mixed state topological orders can be classified, characterized and realized as pure state SPTs and topological orders in the bilayer. We further study examples of strong-to-weak spontaneous symmetry breaking (SWSSB) and their critical scalings at the SWSSB transition in the bilayer construction.


---
# Intertwined effects of elastic deformation and damage on vortex pinning and Jc degradation in polycrystalline superconductors

## 多晶超导体中弹性变形和损伤对涡旋钉扎和Jc退化的交织影响

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.11561

arXiv:2411.11561v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: The damage and the critical current density (Jc) degradation of polycrystalline superconductors induced by strain dramatically influence their performance in applications. Unfortunately, the state-of-the-art experimental techniques are unable to detect the damage of internal polycrystalline structures and the microscopic superconductivity in the presence of strain. We propose a groundbreaking multi-scale theoretical framework aimed at revealing the underlying physical mechanisms of the reversible and irreversible Jc degradation induced by the strain through tackling the complex intertwined effects of elastic deformation and damage on the superconductivity of grain boundaries and the associated vortex pinning. The results are well validated by experimental measurements. Utilizing the benchmarked physical model, we demonstrate that the damage evolutions of polycrystalline superconductors in the presence of strain can be approximately estimated by means of the electromagnetic experiments on Jc. Furthermore, we also discuss the characteristics of damage and Jc degradation of polycrystalline superconductors subjected to biaxial mechanical loads. The findings will pave the way to investigate the tunable vortex pinning and Jc of superconductors by strain, and to develop a brand new electromagnetic method to manifest the damage of polycrystalline superconductors.


---
# Fully nonequilibrium Hall response from Berry curvature

## 来自Berry曲率的完全非平衡霍尔响应

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.16675

arXiv:2411.16675v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: In topological materials, Berry curvature leads to intrinsic Hall responses. Focusing on time-reversal symmetric systems with broken inversion symmetry, a spontaneoous (zero magnetic field) Hall effect is expected to develop under an applied electric field. Motivated by recent developments in Weyl-Kondo semimetals, here we advance a fully nonequilibrium (FNE) Hall response due to the Berry curvature. In particular, we show that, while the spontaneous Hall current is quadratic in the previously described regime of weak electric field, due to the contribution from the dipole moment of the Berry curvature, the FNE Hall response for non-perturbative electric fields is not controlled by the Berry curvature dipole. Remarkably, the FNE Hall response resembles what happens in systems that break the microscopic time-reversal symmetry. We illustrate the universality of these results by comparing them with their counterparts in systems with any higher-multipole of the Berry curvature. The implications of our results for the understanding of strongly correlated topological semimetals are discussed.


---
# Quantum machines using $\rm{Cu}_{3}$-like compounds modeled by Heisenberg antiferromagnetic in a triangular ring

## 在三角形环中使用由海森堡反铁磁建模的 $ \ rm{Cu }_{ 3}$ 类化合物的量子机器

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.01340

arXiv:2406.01340v3 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: A theoretical study of an antiferromagnetically coupled spin system, specifically $\rm{Cu}_{3}-\rm{X}$ $(\rm{X=As, Sb})$, characterized by a slightly distorted equilateral triangle configuration is presented. Using the Heisenberg model with exchange and Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interactions, g-factors, and an external magnetic field, three quantum machines are investigated using this system as the working substance, assuming reversible processes. For ${\rm{Cu}_{3}-\rm{X}}$ he magnetocaloric effect (MCE) is significant at low temperatures (around 1K) under a perpendicular magnetic field ($\sim5$T). Although only the $\rm{Cu}_{3}-\rm{As}$ compound is considered, since the $\rm{Cu}_{3}-\rm{Sb}$ compound behaves quite similarly. How MCE influences the Carnot machine, which operates as a heat engine or refrigerator when varying the external magnetic field is analyzed. In contrast, the Otto and Stirling machines can operate as heat engines, refrigerators, heaters, or thermal accelerators, depending on the magnetic field intensity. The results indicate that enhanced MCE broadens the operating regions for these machines, with the Otto and Stirling machines primarily functioning as refrigerators and accelerators. The corresponding thermal efficiencies are also discussed for all operating modes.


---
# Finite time path field theory perturbative methods for local quantum spin chain quenches

## 局部量子自旋链猝灭的有限时间路径场理论微扰方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.03832

arXiv:2409.03832v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: We discuss local magnetic field quenches using perturbative methods of finite time path field theory (FTPFT) in the following spin chains: Ising and XY in a transverse magnetic field. Their common characteristics are: (i) they are integrable via mapping to a second quantized noninteracting fermion problem; and (ii) when the ground state is nondegenerate (true for finite chains except in special cases), it can be represented as a vacuum of Bogoliubov fermions. By switching on a local magnetic field perturbation at finite time, the problem becomes nonintegrable and must be approached via numeric or perturbative methods. Using the formalism of FTPFT based on Wigner transforms (WTs) of projected functions, we show how to: (i) calculate the basic ``bubble'' diagram in the Loschmidt echo (LE) of a quenched chain to any order in the perturbation; and (ii) resum the generalized Schwinger--Dyson equation for the fermion two-point retarded functions in the ``bubble'' diagram, hence achieving the resummation of perturbative expansion of LE for a wide range of perturbation strengths under certain analyticity assumptions. Limitations of the assumptions and possible generalizations beyond it and also for other spin chains are further discussed.


---
# Boundary overlap in the open XXZ spin chain

## 开放的XXZ自旋链中的边界重叠

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.15194

arXiv:2409.15194v3 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: In this paper we compute the overlaps of the ground states for the open spin chains after a change of one of the boundary magnetic fields. It can be considered as the first step toward the study of the boundary quench problem: behaviour of an open spin chain after an abrupt change of one boundary magnetic field.


---
# Merging high localization and TE-TM polarization degeneracy of guided waves in dielectric metasurfaces

## 合并电介质超表面中导波的高局部化和te-tm极化简并性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17872

arXiv:2411.17872v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The polarization degree of freedom is an inherent feature of plane waves propagating in an isotropic homogeneous medium. The miniaturization of optical systems leads to the high localization of electromagnetic waves, but also to the loss of polarization control, namely, breaking TE-TM polarization degeneracy. In this work, we discover the near-field polarization degree of freedom for highly localized guided waves propagating along a dielectric metasurface. We demonstrate the opportunity to create a metasurface with the degenerate TE-TM polarization spectrum for the required operating wavelength and different constitutive materials. In particular, we analyze several possible implementations including silicon nitride and ceramic metasurfaces consisting of disk-shaped resonators, and evaluate the impact of substrate. Finally, we experimentally implement one of the metasurface designs and verify its broadband degenerate TE-TM polarization spectrum. The obtained results form a fundamentally new platform for the planar polarization devices utilizing the polarization degree of freedom of localized light.


---
# Kinetic simulations underestimate the effects of waves during magnetic reconnection

## 动力学模拟低估了磁重联过程中波的影响

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18020

arXiv:2411.18020v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Collisionless plasma systems are often studied using fully kinetic simulations, where protons and electrons are treated as particles. Due to their computational expense, it is necessary to reduce the ion-to-electron mass ratio $m_i/m_e$ or the ratio between plasma and cyclotron frequencies in simulations of large systems. In this work we show that when electron-scale waves are present in larger-scale systems, numerical parameters affect their amplitudes and effects on the larger system. Using lower-hybrid drift waves during magnetic reconnection as an example, we find that the ratio between the wave electric field and the reconnection electric field scales like $\sqrt{m_i/m_e}$, while the phase relationship is also affected. The combination of these effects means that the anomalous drag that contributes to momentum balance in the reconnection region can be underestimated by an order of magnitude. The results are relevant to the coupling of electron-scale waves to ion-scale reconnection regions, and other systems such as collisionless shocks.


---
# Influence of Critical Current Distribution on Operation, Quench Detection and Protection of HTS Pancake Coils

## 临界电流分布对HTS扁平线圈运行、失超检测和保护的影响

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18124

arXiv:2411.18124v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: High-temperature superconductor (HTS) coated conductors (CC) are often wound into pancake coils with electrical insulation in-between the turns. The copper terminals are used for current injection and conduction cooling. An inherent variation of the critical current along the CC length results from its manufacturing process. This variation causes non-uniform heat generation, particularly when the coil is operated at a high fraction of the nominal critical current or when large critical current defects are present. The temperature distribution resulting from the balance between cooling and heating, in combination with the magnetic field and critical current distributions, determines whether a thermal runaway occurs. Accurately predicting the level of critical current defects that can be tolerated during conduction-cooled operation is difficult and requires a 3D coupled electromagnetic and thermal simulation. This paper presents the results of simulations that are performed with the open-source Finite Element Quench Simulator (FiQuS) tool developed at CERN as part of the STEAM framework. The 3D coupled magnetodynamic-thermal simulations are based on the H-phi formulation and use thin shell approximations, a CC homogenization and conduction-cooling. The critical current (Ic) is varied along the CC length. The effect of a single defect specified as a reduction of Ic along the CC length is investigated in terms of the coil's ability to reach and maintain the operating conditions. The Ic and length of the defect that results in a thermal runaway are analyzed in terms of defect location. In addition, a classical 1D scenario with a quench heater is studied. Both the local defect and the heater cases are compared in terms of the voltage signal available for quench detection. These cases result in very different requirements for quench detection, and their implications are discussed.


---
# Optical characterisation of ilmenite by reflectance spectroscopy

## 钛铁矿的反射光谱光学表征

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18132

arXiv:2411.18132v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Bi-directional reflection spectroscopy based on multiple scattering of particulate surfaces is employed in identifying the optical properties of titanium-iron oxide mineral from laboratory reflection measurements.However, the approach suffers from issues including: i) both n and k are to be extracted from a single spectroscopy spectrum, ii) imposing constraints of the K-K correlation relating spectral n and k is weakened by its fundamental insensitivity, and iii) incapability in addressing intrinsic strong absorption features of absorbing materials. We resolve these issues by employing additional optical information of directional-hemispherical reflection and emission/absorption for a slab and a stratified multi-layer medium of the material, respectively. The accompanied analyses consist of radiation transfer in a slab medium investigated using the two-flux approximation method and electromagnetic radiation propagation in a stratified multi-layer medium investigated using the electric filed transfer matrix. We further find that an understanding of the internal scattering coefficient of grains in the multiple scattering model paves the way in successfully predicting absorption features of materials. A wavelength-dependent internal scattering coefficient of the material is then found to be 50 1/micrometer and 1/10000000 1/micrometer in regions of strong absorption and high transmission (between 7 and 13 micrometer), respectively. The value of the refractive index n varies weakly on the wavelength. A pronounced change in the determined absorptive index k with the wavelength is observed. Low values of the absorptive index k on the magnitude of 0.01 are obtained in the transmission window spectral range. In the strong absorption spectral range starting from 13 micrometer, values of the absorptive index k are higher than 0.1.


---
# Uniform Field in Microwave Cavities Through the Use of Effective Magnetic Walls

## 通过使用有效的磁壁在微波腔中形成均匀的磁场

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18474

arXiv:2411.18474v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Wire media (WM) resonators have emerged as promising realization for plasma haloscopes -- devices designed to detect axions, a potential component of dark matter. Key factors influencing the detection probability include cavity volume, resonance quality factor, and form factor. While the form factor has been explored for resonant frequency tuning, its optimization for axion detection remains unexplored. In this work, we present a novel approach to significantly enhance the form factor of WM plasma haloscopes. By shifting the metal walls of the resonator by a quarter wavelength, we effectively convert an electric wall boundary condition into a magnetic wall one, allowing for an almost uniform mode. Theoretical analysis and numerical simulations confirm that this modification improves the electric field profile and boosts the form factor. We validate these findings through experimental results from two prototype resonators: one with a standard geometry and another with a quarter-wave air gap between the WM and the walls. Additionally, our method provides a simple way to control the field profile within WM cavities, which can be explored for further applications.


---
# Overview of the Head and Neck Tumor Segmentation for Magnetic Resonance Guided Applications (HNTS-MRG) 2024 Challenge

## 磁共振引导应用的头颈部肿瘤分割 (HNTS-MRG) 2024挑战概述

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18585

arXiv:2411.18585v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Magnetic resonance (MR)-guided radiation therapy (RT) is enhancing head and neck cancer (HNC) treatment through superior soft tissue contrast and longitudinal imaging capabilities. However, manual tumor segmentation remains a significant challenge, spurring interest in artificial intelligence (AI)-driven automation. To accelerate innovation in this field, we present the Head and Neck Tumor Segmentation for MR-Guided Applications (HNTS-MRG) 2024 Challenge, a satellite event of the 27th International Conference on Medical Image Computing and Computer Assisted Intervention. This challenge addresses the scarcity of large, publicly available AI-ready adaptive RT datasets in HNC and explores the potential of incorporating multi-timepoint data to enhance RT auto-segmentation performance. Participants tackled two HNC segmentation tasks: automatic delineation of primary gross tumor volume (GTVp) and gross metastatic regional lymph nodes (GTVn) on pre-RT (Task 1) and mid-RT (Task 2) T2-weighted scans. The challenge provided 150 HNC cases for training and 50 for testing, hosted on grand-challenge.org using a Docker submission framework. In total, 19 independent teams from across the world qualified by submitting both their algorithms and corresponding papers, resulting in 18 submissions for Task 1 and 15 submissions for Task 2. Evaluation using the mean aggregated Dice Similarity Coefficient showed top-performing AI methods achieved scores of 0.825 in Task 1 and 0.733 in Task 2. These results surpassed clinician interobserver variability benchmarks, marking significant strides in automated tumor segmentation for MR-guided radiation therapy applications in head and neck cancer.


---
# First characterisation of the MAGO cavity, a superconducting RF detector for kHz-MHz gravitational waves

## MAGO腔的首次表征，MAGO腔是用于khz-mhz引力波的超导RF检测器

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18346

arXiv:2411.18346v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Heterodyne detection using microwave cavities is a promising method for detecting high-frequency gravitational waves or ultralight axion dark matter. In this work, we report on studies conducted on a spherical 2-cell cavity developed by the MAGO collaboration for high-frequency gravitational waves detection. Although fabricated around 20 years ago, the cavity had not been used since. Due to deviations from the nominal geometry, we conducted a mechanical survey and performed room-temperature plastic tuning. Measurements and simulations of the mechanical resonances and electromagnetic properties were carried out, as these are critical for estimating the cavity's gravitational wave coupling potential. Based on these results, we plan further studies in a cryogenic environment. The cavity characterisation does not only provide valuable experience for a planned physics run but also informs the future development of improved cavity designs.


---
# Mimicking a rotating black hole with nonlinear electrodynamics

## 用非线性电动力学模拟旋转黑洞

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18573

arXiv:2411.18573v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We exhibit the first analogue model of a rotating black hole constructed in the framework of nonlinear electrodynamics. The background electromagnetic field is assumed to be algebraically special and adapted to a geodesic shear-free congruence of null rays in Minkowski spacetime, the Kerr congruence. The corresponding optical metric has a Kerr-Schild form and, it is shown to be characterized by three parameters, thus predicting the existence of an ergosurface, a horizon, and a slice identical to one also present in the Kerr metric.


---
# Magnetic-field dependence of spin-phonon relaxation and dephasing due to g-factor fluctuations from first principles

## 从第一性原理的g因子波动引起的自旋声子弛豫和移相的磁场依赖性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18608

arXiv:2411.18608v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Spin relaxation of electrons in materials involve both reversible dephasing and irreversible decoherence processes. Their interplay leads to a complex dependence of spin relaxation times on the direction and magnitude of magnetic fields, relevant for spintronics and quantum information applications. Here, we use real-time first-principles density matrix dynamics simulations to directly simulate Hahn echo measurements, disentangle dephasing from decoherence, and predict T1, T2 and T2* spin lifetimes. We show that g-factor fluctuations lead to non-trivial magnetic field dependence of each of these lifetimes in inversion-symmetric crystals of CsPbBr3 and silicon, even when only intrinsic spin-phonon scattering is present. Most importantly, fluctuations in the off-diagonal components of the g-tensor lead to a strong magnetic field dependence of even the T1 lifetime in silicon. Our calculations elucidate the detailed role of anisotropic g-factors in determining the spin dynamics even in simple, low spin-orbit coupling materials such as silicon.


---
# Discussions on the spatial exponential growth of electromagnetic quasinormal modes

## 电磁准正轨模的空间指数增长的讨论

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.15112

arXiv:2401.15112v4 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: The temporal response of open systems is marked by damped oscillations. These oscillations, often referred to as ringings, are the signature of the decay of quasinormal modes (QNMs). A major research objective across various fields is to represent the response of open systems using QNM expansions, akin to the treatment of normal modes in closed systems. In electromagnetism, it is widely acknowledged that QNM expansions provide a relevant representation of the modal physics within the interior of compact resonators in free space, where QNMs form a complete set of the resonator. However, challenges emerge in the exterior of the resonator, where QNM fields exhibit exponential divergence, rendering QNM expansions incomplete. The divergence poses delicate mathematical issues that often lead to misinterpretations on the physics side. Hereafter, we analyze foundational concepts such as cavity perturbation theory and dissipative coupling between resonators. By studying model problems, we show that the exponential growth is physical and meaningful for understanding the interaction between remote electromagnetic bodies. The analysis consistently reveals that the coupling coefficients between QNMs of two distant bodies strengthen as the separation distance increases, therein challenging the intuition that distant bodies behave independently. These insights that shed light on the origin and implications of the divergence hold significant implications for understanding the ability of contemporary electromagnetic QNM theories in offering a modal representation of the physics in the open space surrounding resonator bodies. Our critical examination of these theories reveals the existence of two distinct perspectives and elucidates the significance of their contrasting viewpoints.


---
# Semicircular illumination scanning transmission electron microscopy

## 半圆形照明扫描透射电子显微镜

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.06871

arXiv:2410.06871v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) provides high-resolution visualization of atomic structures as well as various functional imaging modes utilizing phase contrast. In this study we introduce a semicircular aperture in STEM bright field imaging, which gives a phase contrast transfer function that becomes complex and includes both lower and higher spatial frequency contrast transfer. This approach offers significant advantages over conventional phase plate methods, having no charge accumulation, degradation, or unwanted background noise, which are all problematic in the phase plate material. Also compared to the differential phase contrast or ptychography equipment, this semicircular aperture is far less costly. We apply this approach to visualization of polymer, biological and magnetic samples.


---
# Intergalactic medium rotation measure of primordial magnetic fields

## 原始磁场的星系间介质旋转测量

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.16230

arXiv:2406.16230v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: The Faraday rotation effect, quantified by the Rotation Measure (RM), is a powerful probe of the large-scale magnetization of the Universe - tracing magnetic fields not only on galaxy and galaxy cluster scales but also in the intergalactic Medium (IGM; referred to as $\mathrm{RM}_{\text{IGM}}$). The redshift dependence of the latter has extensively been explored with observations. It has also been shown that this relation can help to distinguish between different large-scale magnetization scenarios. We study the evolution of this $\mathrm{RM}_{\text{IGM}}$ for different primordial magnetogenesis scenarios to search for the imprints of primordial magnetic fields (PMFs; magnetic fields originating in the early Universe) on the redshift-dependence of $\mathrm{RM}_{\text{IGM}}$. We use cosmological magnetohydrodynamic (MHD) simulations for evolving PMFs during large-scale structure formation, coupled to the light cone analysis to produce a realistic statistical sample of mock $\mathrm{RM}_{\text{IGM}}$ images. We study the predicted behavior for the cosmic evolution of $\mathrm{RM}_{\text{IGM}}$ for different correlation lengths of PMFs, and provide fitting functions for their dependence on redshifts. We compare these mock RM trends with the recent analysis of the the LOw-Frequency ARray (LOFAR) RM Grid and find that large-scale-correlated PMFs should have (comoving) strengths $\lesssim 0.75$ nanoGauss, if originated during inflation with the scale invariant spectrum and (comoving) correlation length $\sim 19$ cMpc/h or $ \lesssim 30$ nanoGauss if they originated during phase-transition epochs with the comoving correlation length $\sim 1$ cMpc/h. Our findings agree with previous observations and confirm the results of semi-analytical studies, showing that upper limits on the PMF strength decrease as their coherence scales increase.


---
# Multi-spacecraft observations of the decay phase of solar energetic particle events

## 太阳高能粒子事件衰变阶段的多航天器观测

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.07903

arXiv:2411.07903v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Context: Parameters of solar energetic particle (SEP) event profiles such as the onset time and peak time have been researched extensively to obtain information on acceleration and transport of SEPs. Corotation of particle-filled magnetic flux tubes with the Sun is generally thought to play a minor role in determining intensity profiles. However recent simulations have suggested that corotation has an effect on SEP decay phases, depending on the location of the observer with respect to the active region (AR) associated with the event. Aims: We aim to determine whether signatures of corotation are present in observations of decay phases of SEP events and study how the parameters of the decay phase depend on the properties of the flares and coronal mass ejections (CMEs) associated with the events. Methods: We analyse multi-spacecraft observations of SEP intensity profiles from 11 events between 2020 and 2022, using data from SOLO, PSP, STEREO-A, and SOHO. We determine the decay time constant, \tau in 3 energy channels; electrons ~ 1 MeV, protons ~ 25 MeV, and protons ~ 60 MeV. We study the dependence of \tau on the longitudinal separation, \Delta \phi, between source active region (AR) and the spacecraft magnetic footpoint on the Sun.
  Results: Within individual events there is a tendency for the decay time constant to decrease with increasing $\Delta \phi$, in agreement with test particle simulations. The intensity of the associated flare and speed of the associated CMEs have a strong effect on the measured $\tau$ values and are likely the cause of the observed large inter-event variability.
  Conclusions: We conclude that corotation has a significant effect on the decay phase of a solar energetic particle event and should be included in future simulations and interpretations of these events.


---
# Detection asymmetry in solar energetic particle events

## 太阳高能粒子事件中的探测不对称性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.08211

arXiv:2411.08211v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Context. Solar energetic particles (SEPs) are detected in interplanetary space in association with flares and coronal mass ejections (CMEs) at the Sun. The magnetic connection between the observing spacecraft and the solar active region (AR) source of the event is a key parameter in determining whether SEPs are observed and the properties of the particle event. Aims. We investigate whether an east-west asymmetry in the detection of SEP events is present in observations and discuss its possible link to corotation of magnetic flux tubes with the Sun. Methods. We used a published dataset of 239 CMEs recorded between 2006 and 2017 and having source regions both on the front side and far side of the Sun as seen from Earth. We produced distributions of occurrence of in-situ SEP intensity enhancements associated with the CME events, versus \Delta \phi, the separation in longitude between the source active region and the magnetic footpoint of the observing spacecraft based on the nominal Parker spiral. We focused on protons of energy >10 MeV measured by the STEREO A, STEREO B and GOES spacecraft at 1 au. We also considered the occurrence of 71-112 keV electron events detected by MESSENGER between 0.31 and 0.47 au. Results. We find an east-west asymmetry in the detection of >10 MeV proton events and of 71-112 keV electron events. For protons, observers for which the source AR is on the east side of the spacecraft footpoint and not well connected (-180 < \Delta \phi < -40) are 93% more likely to detect an SEP event compared to observers with +40 < \Delta \phi < +180. The asymmetry may be a signature of corotation of magnetic flux tubes with the Sun, given that for events with \Delta \phi < 0 corotation sweeps the particle-filled flux tubes towards the observing spacecraft, while for \Delta \phi > 0 it takes them away from it.


---
# Intertwined effects of elastic deformation and damage on vortex pinning and Jc degradation in polycrystalline superconductors

## 多晶超导体中弹性变形和损伤对涡旋钉扎和Jc退化的交织影响

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.11561

arXiv:2411.11561v3 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: The damage and the critical current density (Jc) degradation of polycrystalline superconductors induced by strain dramatically influence their performance in applications. Unfortunately, the state-of-the-art experimental techniques are unable to detect the damage of internal polycrystalline structures and the microscopic superconductivity in the presence of strain. We propose a groundbreaking multi-scale theoretical framework aimed at revealing the underlying physical mechanisms of the reversible and irreversible Jc degradation induced by the strain through tackling the complex intertwined effects of elastic deformation and damage on the superconductivity of grain boundaries and the associated vortex pinning. The results are well validated by experimental measurements. Utilizing the benchmarked physical model, we demonstrate that the damage evolutions of polycrystalline superconductors in the presence of strain can be approximately estimated by means of the electromagnetic experiments on Jc. Furthermore, we also discuss the characteristics of damage and Jc degradation of polycrystalline superconductors subjected to biaxial mechanical loads. The findings will pave the way to investigate the tunable vortex pinning and Jc of superconductors by strain, and to develop a brand new electromagnetic method to manifest the damage of polycrystalline superconductors.


---
# Statistical Analysis of Interplanetary Parameters in Geomagnetic Storm Activity during Solar Cycle 24

## 太阳周期24期间地磁风暴活动行星际参数的统计分析

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5425044/latest

The major disturbances in the magnetic field of Earth due to the disruptions in the interplanetary space are known as geomagnetic storms. The presence of mass ejections by the corona in the interplanetary region (ICME) and interplanetary shock (IP shock) plays a significant role in producing disturbances in geomagnetic activity. IP shocks are the predecessors of geomagnetic storms. The magnetic field of interplanetary space and parameters of solar wind increase sharply at the IP shock. Relation of interplanetary parameters linked with geomagnetic disturbances in the 24th cycle of solar activity (2009&amp;ndash;2016) were examined. 19 major (&amp;minus;&amp;thinsp;300&amp;thinsp;&amp;lt;&amp;thinsp;Dst&amp;thinsp;&amp;le;&amp;thinsp;&amp;minus;&amp;thinsp;100 nT) geomagnetic storms are observed during the cycle and they are classified based on the intensities of Dst minima. Geomagnetic activity of solar cycle 24 is found to be low. Peak solar wind speeds at main phase of intense and great geomagnetic storms are found to be in the range 398&amp;ndash;775 km/s. Maximum number of storms occurred closest to maximum (2012&amp;ndash;2014) of solar cycle. Great storms are identified during the phases of declining time of solar cycle 24 (2015).


---
# Investigation of Structural, Electronic, and Optical Properties of Er-Doped KNN System Based on First-Principles Calculations

## 基于第一性原理计算的Er掺杂KNN系统的结构，电子和光学性质研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5401618/latest

Potassium sodium niobate (KNN)-based ceramics exhibit electrical (such as ferroelectric) and photoluminescence (PL) properties and have great application potential in the field of multifunctional optoelectronics. To promote its development in the field of optoelectronics, researchers have been making efforts to improve its photoelectric performance, but mainly through experimental approach with little fundamental theoretical calculations. In this paper, the structural, electronic, and optical properties of (K0.5Na0.5)NbO3, K0.375Na0.5Er0.125NbO3 and K0.5Na0.375Er0.125NbO3 material were simulated based on first-principles calculations. The calculation of formation energy reveals that Er is more inclined to replace Na than A-site K. The introduction of Er leads to a decrease in the lattice constant of the structure, and the oxygen octahedron relaxes inward, which is beneficial to the enhancement of ferroelectricity. The orbital hybridization of Er-4f and O-2p leads to a narrower band gap and an increase in absorbance and conductivity. The A-site substitution of Er produces a non-uniform chemical bond environment locally, which is beneficial to the improvement of PL performance. These results provide theoretical insights for doping mechanism of the KNN-Er system and show its potential in the field of optoelectronic applications.


---
# Magnetic properties of agricultural soils and their relationships with environmental factors in Jinghong, Yunnan, China

## 云南景洪市农业土壤磁学特性及其与环境因子的关系

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5044704/latest

Environmental magnetism, with its advantages of speed, sensitivity, cost-effectiveness, and harmlessness, has extensive applications in various fields such as environmental science, climate research, and soil science. However, studies on the magnetism of agricultural are limited. This study conducted magnetic investigations on 21 agricultural soil profiles (including farmland and tea plantations) and 6 adjacent natural soil profiles (forestland) in the southwestern subtropical region of China. By analyzing and comparing the soil magnetic characteristics of natural soil and agricultural soil profiles and using the structural equation model, the influencing factors of soil magnetism in different soil layers (0-70cm and 70-140 cm) were determined. This study revealed that soil magnetic susceptibility is influenced by soil organic carbon (SOC), drainage conditions, and weathering intensity. In the 0&ndash;70 cm soil layer, SOC and drainage conditions were the primary factors affecting soil magnetism. The differences in soil drainage conditions result in variations in dry&ndash;wet cycling patterns, which, along with the influence of SOC on the formation and transformation of magnetic minerals in redox alternations, affects soil magnetic susceptibility. In the 70&ndash;140 cm soil layer, weathering intensity was the primary factor influencing soil magnetism.


---
# Systematic Photophysical Interaction of New Class of Fluorescein Based Derivative with Organic Solvents: Spectroscopic and Density Functional Theory Methods for Optoelectronic Applications.

## 基于荧光素的新型衍生物与有机溶剂的系统光物理相互作用: 用于光电应用的光谱和密度泛函理论方法。

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5348720/latest

In this report the photophysical property of newly synthesized fluorescein based derivative 2-(5-((2,4-dichlorophenyl)diazenyl)-6-hydroxy-3-oxo-3H-xanthen-9-yl)benzoic acid by spectroscopic and density functional theory technique. The structural of the synthesized molecule was studied by nuclear magnetic resonance and fourier transform infrared spectroscopy technique, from this analysis it has been revealed that the molecule has a stable structure and about the functional groups present in the sample. From the UV-Visible spectroscopy measurement has revealed the solute-solvent interaction behaviour of the molecule and it has been observed that the bathochromic shift was of about 5 nm, from the fluorescence measurement it has revealed that the emission has been observed at green region and from the power spectra it has been confirmed the same. The DFT study has been derived for the synthesized molecule the optimized structure, electrostatic potential maps, theoretical energy band gap and HOMO and LUMO visualizations are derived from the Gaussian 09W software and it has been found that the bandgap energy is found to be 2.060eV for benzene solvent and 3.08 eV in methanol solvent, the electrophilic and nucleophilic sites exhibited at the substitution group of the molecule. The outcomes of the study clearly endorse the synthesized fluorescein derivative suitable for photonic/optoelectronic applications.


---
# Cortical Gray Matter Volume Associations with Dietary Fiber and Calorie Density: A Pilot Study

## 皮质灰质体积与膳食纤维和卡路里密度的关系: 一项初步研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5338934/latest

Alzheimer&rsquo;s disease and related dementia are associated with significant societal costs and economic burdens and have been associated with decreases in cortical gray matter volume.&amp;nbsp; This pilot cross-sectional study investigates the relationship between total fiber concentration in diet, total calorie density per diet, and regional GMV in a cohort of 190 patients aged 20 to 79 years, utilizing data from the 2015 National Health Interview Survey Supplement and T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) collected at the McCausland Center for Brain Imaging. Gray matter volumes were quantified using the CAT12 voxel-based morphometry toolbox and statistical correlations between GMV and dietary measures were assessed using Spearman&rsquo;s rank order correlation coefficient. Our exploratory analysis revealed a significant positive correlation between dietary fiber consumption and GMV in 16 different areas, including the right Hippocampus (r (190) = 0.196, p = 0.003) and left Hippocampus (r (190) = 0.135, p = 0.032), when controlling for age and race of participants. Our analyses revealed significantly negative correlations between total calorie density per diet and localized GMV in 3 different brain areas, including the right Precentral Gyrus (r (190) = -0.15, p = 0.039) and right Thalamic Pulvinar (r (190) = -0.155, p = 0.033), when controlling for participant race. Together, our initial findings suggest that dietary fiber and calorie density are associated with GMV even after controlling for relevant demographic variables. If replicated, these findings could have important implications for dietary advice given to individuals at risk for developing MCI or more serious forms of dementia.&amp;nbsp;


---
# Analysis of Williamson Nanofluid Flow Over a Stretching Surface Using Keller Box Method

## 使用Keller盒方法分析Williamson纳米流体在拉伸表面上的流动

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5415552/latest

This study is dedicated to investigate the nonisothermal boundary layer Williamson nanofluid flow over a non-linear stretched sheet withcombined effects of magnetic field and viscous dissipation. Further, The assumptions of heat slip and velocity slip at the surface are taken into account.&nbsp;Mathematical model is developed using fundamental laws of physics. Suitable transformations are utilized to partial differential equations and obtained a system of ordinary differential equations. Keller box method with step size of 0.006 is employed for accurate computations to solve the set of equations. Velocity of fluid, temperature profile and nano particle volume fraction are graphically discussed for the physical parameters. Also, variations in skin friction coefficient, Nusselt number and Sherwood number are graphically studied for the involved parameters. Accuracy of the results are compared with literature as limiting case. Presence of slip conditions for the Williamson nanofluid flow shows interesting results about flow velocities, temperature and concentration profiles. With rising Williamson parameters, the velocity reduces while, temperature and concentration escalates. Velocity and temperature at the wall declines with rising the velocity slip and thermal slip. Skin friction coefficient reduces with rising Williamson parameters and slip parameter, Nusselt number increases with increasing stretching parameter and Sherwood number rises along Williamson parameters, Lewis number, velocity slip and thermophoresis parameters.


---
# Magnetically Dependent Photovoltages in Permalloy Metasurfaces

## 坡莫合金超表面中的磁相关光电压

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5168547/latest

Significant photoinduced voltages observed in permalloy structures consist of two contributions with different origins, which depend on illumination conditions, structure geometry and magnetic field in distinct ways. The first component is the plasmon drag effect voltage closely associated with plasmon propagation. The second contribution is magnetically dependent and can be related to photoinduced gradients in the sample temperature and spin polarization. Possible mechanisms of the effect are discussed.


---
# Observation of switchable polar skyrmion bubbles down to the atomic layers in van der Waals ferroelectric CuInP2S6

## 在范德华铁电CuInP2S6中观察到可切换的极性skyrmion气泡下至原子层

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-3856814/latest

Polar skyrmions are topologically nontrivial polarization textures that demonstrate exotic physical phenomena and novel memory applications1-9. Thus far, these textures have primarily been reported in oxide-ferroelectric-based epitaxial heterostructures because their stabilization requires an elastic energy penalty from the epitaxial strains3-8. Here, without the epitaxial-strain engineering, we discover polar skyrmion bubbles in stand-alone van der Waals ferroelectric CuInP2S6 crystal through the combination of piezoelectric force microscopy, high-resolution transmission electron microscopy, and phase-field simulations. In a thick CuInP2S6 flake of over ~100 nm, skyrmion bubbles feature an elliptical hedgehog-like state with center-divergent or center-convergent configurations. Progressively thinning the flake thickness to ~8 nm allows a topological transition from elliptical to circular skyrmionic patterns. Interestingly, the skyrmions can be switched with the change in helicity by probe-applied electrical and mechanical stimuli, which is distinct from the creation and annihilation of other reported skyrmions. Both theoretical and experimental data proves that the formation and thickness-dependence of skyrmion textures primarily stem from charge-related energy penalty. This work opens up a new material system (i.e., two-dimensional layered ferroionic materials) for exploring uncharted polar-topology physics and prospective neuromorphic devices.


---
# Enhancement of Precision in Electromagnetic Radar Exterior Wall Inspection through Model-Based Analysis of Measurement Uncertainty

## 基于模型的测量不确定度分析提高电磁雷达外墙检测精度

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5415791/latest

A model-based approach using tile-based models was developed to estimate the depth and size of voids within exterior walls. However, during field applications with portable devices, antenna misalignment has been identified as a key factor reducing the accuracy of these estimations. To address this issue, an index was proposed to evaluate measurement uncertainty through model-based analysis, enhancing data accuracy. Additionally, data accuracy was improved by incorporating labeling from electromagnetic radar and hammering inspection results. The efficacy of the proposed method was validated through data analysis from building exterior wall inspections at construction sites, followed by comparisons of the estimated results. Notably, when classifying tiles as healthy or defective, linear separations in void depth and size increased by 0.566, while separation in void size increased by 0.563.

