# Perspectives on antiferromagnetic magnonics

## 关于反铁磁磁子的观点

Link: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2095927324006418?dgcid=rss_sd_all

<p>Publication date: 15 November 2024</p><p><b>Source:</b> Science Bulletin, Volume 69, Issue 21</p><p>Author(s): Hanchen Wang, Haiming Yu</p>


---
# Strong interlayer magnetic exchange coupling in La<sub>3</sub>Ni<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7−<em>δ</em></sub> revealed by inelastic neutron scattering

## 非弹性中子散射揭示的La&lt;sub&gt;3&lt;/sub&gt;Ni&lt;sub&gt;2&lt;/sub&gt;O&lt;sub&gt;7-&lt;em&gt;δ&lt;/em&gt;&lt;/sub&gt; 中的强层间磁交换耦合

Link: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2095927324005164?dgcid=rss_sd_all

<p>Publication date: 30 October 2024</p><p><b>Source:</b> Science Bulletin, Volume 69, Issue 20</p><p>Author(s): Tao Xie, Mengwu Huo, Xiaosheng Ni, Feiran Shen, Xing Huang, Hualei Sun, Helen C. Walker, Devashibhai Adroja, Dehong Yu, Bing Shen, Lunhua He, Kun Cao, Meng Wang</p>


---
# Topological surface states in quasi-two-dimensional magnetic kagome metal EuTi<sub>3</sub>Bi<sub>4</sub>

## 准二维磁性kagome金属EuTi&lt;sub&gt;3&lt;/sub&gt;Bi&lt;sub&gt;4&lt;/sub&gt; 中的拓扑表面态

Link: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2095927324005966?dgcid=rss_sd_all

<p>Publication date: 30 October 2024</p><p><b>Source:</b> Science Bulletin, Volume 69, Issue 20</p><p>Author(s): Zhicheng Jiang, Tongrui Li, Jian Yuan, Zhengtai Liu, Zhipeng Cao, Soohyun Cho, Mingfang Shu, Yichen Yang, Zhikai Li, Jiayu Liu, Jianyang Ding, Zhonghao Liu, Jishan Liu, Jie Ma, Zhe Sun, Xiangang Wan, Yanfeng Guo, Dawei Shen, Donglai Feng</p>


---
# Full-Endoscopic Transforaminal Decompression with Modified Reaming Technique on Lateral Recess Stenosis: Outcomes of 155 Cases and Five Years&rsquo; Experience. A Case Series Study

## 改良扩髓技术全内镜经椎间孔减压治疗侧隐窝狭窄: 155例疗效及5年经验。案例系列研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5169635/latest

Objective: Lateral recess stenosis (LRS) is a degenerative condition which caused by bulging disc, hyperplasia of superior articular process and hypertrophy of ligament flavum. The advancement of transforaminal endoscopic lumbar approaches provides effective treatment not only for migrated herniation but also for stenosis. We outlined a modified non-sequential foraminoplasty technique utilizing a trephine, and conducted a comprehensive review of our cases to demonstrate safety and efficacy of the procedure.Methods: Patients with lumbar radiculopathy refractory to conservative treatment, diagnosed with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and diagnostic root blocks, and underwent full endoscopic transforaminal decompression with the modified non-sequential foraminoplasty technique between April 2017 to September 2022 were included. Those with multiple level stenosis, previous surgery at the same level, unstable spondylolisthesis, lumbar herniated disc without stenosis, infection, fracture, or tumor were excluded. The study recorded the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), Modified Macnab criteria, as well as intra- and postoperative complications.Results:. 155 patients were included in the study. Clinical and postoperative outcomes revealed significantly lower back and leg visual analog scale scores, as well as Oswestry Disability Index scores at various postoperative time points compared to preoperative values (P&amp;thinsp;&amp;lt;&amp;thinsp;0.01) At the final follow-up, the modified MacNab criteria were rated as follows: excellent in 65 patients (41.9%), good in 60 patients (38.7%), fair in 2 patients (1.2%), and poor in 28 patients (18.0%).Conclusions: Full endoscopic transforaminal decompression using modified non-sequential foraminoplasty technique is an effective and safe treatment for lumbar lateral recess stenosis.


---
# Hypothalamic Subregion Alterations in Short Stature Children and Relations to Growth-Regulated Hormone Level and Cognitive Changes

## 矮小儿童的下丘脑亚区改变及其与生长调节激素水平和认知变化的关系

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5047218/latest

Rationale and Objectives: To delve into the volume alterations of the hypothalamus subregions among short stature children, identify the relations to growth-regulated hormone level and cognitive changes.
Materials and Methods: Structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was obtained from 79 children with diagnosed with growth hormone deficiency (GHD), 89 children with idiopathic short stature (ISS). Levels of IGF-1, IGFBP-3, ACTH and cortisol were measured and the growth hormone stimulation test was used to documented the GH level. The Wechsler Intelligence Scale test was used to assessment cognitive changes. Based on an automated hypothalamus segmentation tool, the hypothalamus and its subregions were segmented. Volumes of the hypothalamic subregions were compared between the two groups. Correlational analysis was used to assess the relationship between morphometric alterations with hormone levels and cognitive changes.
Results: Posterior subregion (PS) and tubular inferior subregion (TIS) volumes were significant smaller in GHD children compared with ISS children. However, GHD children got bigger volume in whole hypothalamus. In the whole cohort, the intelligent scores of Processing Speed Index (PSI) and Cognitive Proficiency Index (CPI) were positively correlated with the volume of PS, WH (whole hypothalamus) respectively. In GHD group, the volume of TIS was positively correlated with the level of IGFBP-3. Additionally, the volume of PS was negatively correlated with the levels of peak GH and GH levels recorded at intervals of 30 min, 90 min.
Conclusion: Analyzing hypothalamus subregions could improve understanding of GHD pathophysiology and may serve as non-invasive imaging biomarkers, potentially leading to new therapeutic strategies.

