# Family of dual topological materials ${X\mathrm{Sb}}_{4}{\mathrm{Te}}_{4}\phantom{\rule{0.16em}{0ex}}(X=\mathrm{Ge},\phantom{\rule{0.16em}{0ex}}\mathrm{Sn},\phantom{\rule{0.16em}{0ex}}\mathrm{Pb})$

## 对偶拓扑材料族 ${X \ mathrm{Sb }}_{ 4 }{\ mathrm{Te }}_{ 4}\ phantom{\ rule{0.16em}{0ex}}(X = \ mathrm{Ge },\ phantom{\ rule{0.16em}{0ex }}\ mathrm{Sn },\ 0.16em}{0ex }}\ mathrm{Pb})$

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevMaterials.9.014201

**Authors:** M. Bosnar, A.Yu. Vyazovskaya, I.Yu. Sklyadneva, S. V. Eremeev, Yu. M. Koroteev, E. K. Petrov, R. Heid, R. M. Geilhufe, A. Ernst, E. V. Chulkov, and M. M. Otrokov

Author(s): M. Bosnar, A.Yu. Vyazovskaya, I.Yu. Sklyadneva, S. V. Eremeev, Yu. M. Koroteev, E. K. Petrov, R. Heid, R. M. Geilhufe, A. Ernst, E. V. Chulkov, and M. M. Otrokov<br /><p>Using density functional theory, we characterize crystal and electronic structures as well as the topology of the $X{\mathrm{Sb}}_{4}{\mathrm{Te}}_{4}$ family of materials $(X=\mathrm{Ge}, \mathrm{Sn}, \mathrm{Pb})$ that are composed of the $X{\mathrm{Sb}}_{2}{\mathrm{Te}}_{4}$ septuple layers inter…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. Materials 9, 014201] Published Tue Jan 14, 2025


---
# On the role of Electronic Doorway States in the Secondary Electron Emission from Solids

## 关于电子门口状态在固体二次电子发射中的作用

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.06228

**Authors:** Anna Niggas, Maosheng Hao, Peter Richter, Florian Simperl, Felix Bl\"odorn, M Cap, Johannes Kero, D Hofmann, Alessandra Bellissimo, Joachim Burgd\"orfer, Thomas Seyller, Richard A Wilhelm, Florian Libisch, Wolfgang S M Werner

arXiv:2501.06228v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We investigate the phenomenon of secondary low-energy electron emission from graphene and graphite. By applying a coincidence detection of the primary scattered and an emitted secondary electron, we disentangle specific features otherwise hidden in the essentially featureless secondary electron spectrum. Hand-in-hand with density functional theory calculations, we show that this slow electron emission is governed not only by the density of states in the occupied and unoccupied band structure but is also modulated by the coupling of levels above the vacuum energy to free-vacuum states. This implies electronic doorway states which facilitate efficient propagation of electrons from the solid to vacuum, some of which only open for samples with more than 5 layers.


---
# Anomalous Ultrafast Thermalization of Photoexcited Carriers in Two-Dimensional Materials Induced by Orbital Coupling

## 轨道耦合引起的二维材料中光激发载流子的反常超快热化

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.06412

**Authors:** Zhuoqun Wen, Haiyu Zhu, Wenhao Liu, Zhi Wang, Wen Xiong, Xingzhan Wei

arXiv:2501.06412v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Understanding the dynamics of photoexcited carriers is essential for advancing photoelectronic device design. Photon absorption generates electron-hole pairs, and subsequent scatterings can induce ultrafast thermalization within a picosecond, forming a quasi-equilibrium distribution with overheated electrons. The high-energy tail of this distribution enables carriers to overcome energy barriers, thereby enhancing quantum efficiency--a phenomenon known as photo-thermionic emission (PTE). Despite its importance, the onset and mechanisms of PTE remain under debate. Using real-time time-dependent density functional theory (rt-TDDFT), we investigate ultrafast carrier thermalization in two-dimensional materials graphene and PtTe2, and the results reveal distinct differences. In graphene, both electrons and holes thermalize into Fermi-Dirac distributions with good agreement to experiment, while PtTe2 exhibits anomalous high-energy tails for both electrons and holes, deviating significantly from Fermi-Dirac behavior. We attribute this anomaly to differences in orbital coupling between the two materials, from which we derive design principles for identifying optimal PTE candidates and, ultimately, improving photodetector performance.


---
# Density Functional Leveraged Tight-binding Insights into Inorganic Halide Perovskites

## 对无机卤化物钙钛矿的密度泛函杠杆紧密结合见解

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.06503

**Authors:** Misbah Shaheen, Sheharyar Pervez

arXiv:2501.06503v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Compared to first principles studies like DFT (physically accurate, computationally expensive), the TB approach allows the disentanglement of the region of interest, to wit the fermi level. This allows the creation of simplified, highly interpretable models that give chemically grounded insights. In this paper we employ a Wannierized TB approach to tune the bandgap and electronic structure via anion exchange and investigate its impact on the orbital interactives of inorganic lead halide perovskites. Further adjustment of the hopping norm and maximum distance leads to a reduced TB model which regenerates the broad features of the band structure with a fraction of the parameters, thereby making the model simpler and highly interpretable. We observe that due to the asymmetry of the unit cell and the delocalized nature of its orbitals, CsPbBrI2 follows a many-small hopping scheme different in character from the few-big strategy taken by the other perovskites. Finally we leverage the TB model to study the electronic and thermal transport properties of these materials. These insight enable the identification of optimal doping strategies that could enhance thermoelectric performance by improving carrier mobility or optimizing the Seebeck coefficient.


---
# Fermi Level and Light Driven Defect Generation in Silicon Solar Cells

## 硅太阳电池中的费米能级和光驱动缺陷产生

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.06667

**Authors:** Andrew Diggs, Zitong Zhao, Adam Goga, Zachary Crawford, Gergely T. Zimanyi

arXiv:2501.06667v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Hydrogenated amorphous silicon (a-Si:H) has had a long standing role as a passivating dielectric for c-Si, often utilized in the early development of ICs and more recently for Si solar cells. Although it has been studied for more than 60 years, several questions about the material properties remain open, including light-induced degradation and the Fermi level dependence on the mobility of hydrogen. Here we study the origin of these phenomenon using electronic structure based calculations. First, we use density functional theory (DFT) and the nudged elastic band (NEB) method to examine defect generation via Si-H bond breaking in p-type, intrinsic, and n-type a-Si:H. We find that the energy barrier controlling this defect generation, shows the same asymmetric reduction of $\sim 0.3$ eV for p-type and $\sim 0.1$ eV for n-type, observed in experimental studies. We then develop a model based on the local Coulomb interactions at the transition state, which provides compelling evidence that the asymmetry results from the emergence of a high energy donor state created by the interstitial H. Finally, we repeat our Si-H bond breaking analysis, combining NEB with constrained density functional perturbation theory (c-DFPT) to simulate defect generation dynamics in illuminated a-Si:H. Here we find that e-p pair results in a combined effect that reduces the barrier by $\sim 0.4$, in close agreement with experimental observations.


---
# Correlated electronic structures and unconventional superconductivity in bilayer nickelate heterostructures

## 双层镍酸盐异质结构中的相关电子结构和非常规超导性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.06875

**Authors:** Changming Yue, Jian-Jian Miao, Haoliang Huang, Yichen Hua, Peng Li, Yueying Li, Guangdi Zhou, Wei Lv, Qishuo Yang, Hongyi Sun, Yu-Jie Sun, Junhao Lin, Qi-Kun Xue, Zhuoyu Chen, Wei-Qiang Chen

arXiv:2501.06875v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The recent discovery of ambient-pressure superconductivity in thin-film bilayer nickelates opens new possibilities for investigating electronic structures in this new class of high-transition temperature ($\bm{T_\mathrm{C}}$) superconductors. Here, we construct a realistic multi-orbital Hubbard model for the thin-film system based on structural parameters integrating scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) measurements and ab initio calculations. The interaction parameters are calculated with the constrained random phase approximation (cRPA). The on-site Coulomb repulsive $\bm{U}$ and electron filling $\bm{n}$ dependencies of the correlated electronic structure are investigated based on density functional theory (DFT) plus cluster dynamical mean-field theory (CDMFT) methods. The fermi surface topology is substantially changed by $\bm{U}$ around the cRPA value, suggesting the indispensable role of correlation effects. A modified random-phase-approximation (RPA) approach, using $\bm{U=3.5}$ and $\bm{n = 1.3}$, yields a pronounced $\bm{s^{\pm}}$-wave pairing instability, due to the strong spin fluctuations originated from Fermi surface nesting between bands with predominantly $\bm{d_{z^{2}}}$ characters. Our findings may explain the similar onset $\bm{T_\mathrm{C}}$ comparing pressured bulks and strained thin films of the bilayer nickelates.


---
# From Solution to Surface: Persistence of the Diradical Character of a Diindenoanthracene Derivative on a Metallic Substrate

## 从溶液到表面: 二茚并蒽衍生物在金属基底上的双自由基特性的持久性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.07285

**Authors:** Jeremy Hieulle, Carlos Garcia Fernandez, Niklas Friedrich, Alessio Vegliante, Sofia Sanz, Daniel Sanchez-Portal, Michael M. Haley, Juan Casado, Thomas Frederiksen, Jose Ignacio Pascual

arXiv:2501.07285v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Organic diradicals are envisioned as elementary building blocks for designing a new generation of spintronic devices and have been used in constructing prototypical field effect transistors and non-linear optical devices. Open-shell systems, however, are also reactive, thus requiring design strategies to protect their radical character from the environment, especially when they are embedded into solid-state devices. Here, we report the persistence on a metallic surface of the diradical character of a diindeno[b,i]anthracene (DIAn) core protected by bulky end-groups. Our scanning tunneling spectroscopy measurements on single-molecules detected singlet-triplet excitations that were absent for DIAn species packed in assembled structures. Density functional theory simulations unravel that molecular geometry on the metal substrate can crucially modify the value of the single-triplet gap via the delocalization of the radical sites. The persistence of the diradical character over metallic substrates is a promising finding for integrating radical-based materials in functional devices.


---
# Theoretical characterization of NV-like defects in 4H-SiC using ADAQ with the SCAN and r2SCAN meta-GGA functionals

## 使用具有SCAN和r2SCAN meta-gga功能的ADAQ对4H-SiC中NV类缺陷的理论表征

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.07289

**Authors:** Ghulam Abbas, Oscar Bulancea-Lindvall, Joel Davidsson, Rickard Armiento, Igor A. Abrikosov

arXiv:2501.07289v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Kohn-Sham density functional theory (DFT) is widely used for screening color centers in semiconductors. While the Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof (PBE) functional is efficient, it often lacks precision in describing defects. The Heyd-Scuseria-Ernzerhof (HSE) functional is more accurate but computationally expensive, making it impractical for large-scale screening. However, third-rung functionals of "Jacob's ladder" remain largely under explored in this context. This study evaluates the Strongly Constrained and Appropriately Normed (SCAN) family of meta-GGA functionals as potential alternatives to PBE for characterizing NV-like color centers in 4H-SiC using the Automatic Defect Analysis and Qualification (ADAQ) framework. We examine nitrogen, oxygen, fluorine, sulfur, and chlorine vacancies in 4H-SiC, focusing on applications in quantum technology. Our results show that SCAN and r2SCAN achieve greater accuracy than PBE, approaching HSE's precision at a lower computational cost. This suggests that the SCAN family offers a practical improvement for screening new color centers, with computational demands similar to PBE.


---
# Capillary Pressure-Saturation relation derived from the Pore Morphology Method

## 由孔隙形态法导出的毛细管压力-饱和度关系

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.07355

**Authors:** Fernando Alonso-Marroquin, Martin P. Andersson

arXiv:2501.07355v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: A computationally efficient method to calculate the capillary pressure-saturation relations of immiscible multiphase flow on two-dimensional pore morphologies is presented here. The method is an extension of the Pore Morphology Method that includes wetting angle and trapped mechanism of the displaced fluid, and calculation of material properties by density functional theory. After validating the method with micro-chip fluid injection experiments, the method is used to relate pore morphology to capillary pressure-saturation relation using square-lattice pore morphologies. Because the method uses only morphological binary operations, it is more efficient than well-established high-resolution voxel dynamics methods such as Lattice Boltzmann Methods and Level-set computational fluid dynamics. Apart from pore morphology, only the material parameters related to contact angle (wettability) and interfacial tension are required to connect the pore-saturation relation and pore throat distribution. We investigate the effect on interfacial tension, wettability, sample size, and pore throat distribution on entry pressure and residual saturation.


---
# Detecting charge transfer at defects in 2D materials with electron ptychography

## 通过电子照相检测2D材料中缺陷处的电荷转移

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.04469

**Authors:** Christoph Hofer, Jacob Madsen, Toma Susi, Timothy J. Pennycook

arXiv:2301.04469v5 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Electronic charge transfer at the atomic scale can reveal fundamental information about chemical bonding, but is far more challenging to directly image than the atomic structure. The charge density is dominated by the atomic nuclei, with bonding causing only a small perturbation. Thus detecting any change due to bonding requires a higher level of sensitivity than imaging structure and the overall charge density. Here we achieve the sensitivity required to detect charge transfer in both pristine and defected monolayer WS\textsubscript{2} using the high dose efficiency of electron ptychography and its ability to correct for lens aberrations. Excellent agreement is achieved with first-principles image simulations including where thermal diffuse scattering is explicitly modeled via finite-temperature molecular dynamics based on density functional theory. The focused-probe ptychography configuration we use also provides the important ability to concurrently collect the annular dark-field signal, which can be unambiguously interpreted in terms of the atomic structure and chemical identity of the atoms, independently of the charge transfer. Our results demonstrate both the power of ptychographic reconstructions and the importance of quantitatively accurate simulations to aid their interpretation.


---
# Electronic Structure, mass fluctuation, and Localized Bond Properties of two-dimensional double-layer transition metal chalcogenide MX$_2$ (M = Mo, W; X = S, Se, Te) Calculated Based on Density Functional Theory and BBC model

## 基于密度泛函理论和BBC模型计算的二维双层过渡金属硫族化合物MX $_2 $ (M = Mo，W; X = S，Se，Te) 的电子结构，质量涨落和局域键性质

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00792

**Authors:** Yaorui Tan, Maolin Bo

arXiv:2412.00792v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: This study systematically investigates the electronic structure and bonding properties of two-dimensional bilayer transition metal chalcogenides MX$_2$ (M = Mo, W; X = S, Se, Te) using density functional theory calculations. Through the analysis of band gaps, deformation bond energies, and non-Hermitian bonding characteristics of various MX$_2$ compounds, the electronic properties and chemical bonding features are comprehensively examined. The findings demonstrate that charge transfer plays a critical role in electron mass fluctuation, with the incorporation of topological geometric analysis confirming the influence of mass changes on atomic bonding and electronic states. Furthermore, Heterojunctions between distinct atomic layers are shown to effectively modulate the band gap of two-dimensional bilayer transition metal chalcogenides. This work establishes a theoretical foundation for advancing the application of these materials.


---
# Thermodynamic favourability of 1T phase over 1H phase in group III metal monochalcogenide zigzag nanoribbons

## III族金属单硫族化物锯齿形纳米带中1t相与1h相的热力学优势

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.05971

**Authors:** Emin Aliyev, Arash Mobaraki, H\^aldun Sevin\c{c}li, Seymur Jahangirov

arXiv:2412.05971v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Owing to the promising optoelectric and thermoelectric properties of two-dimensional (2D) group III-VI materials (MXs), their nanoribbons (NRs) have attracted notable attention as an emerging class of quasi-one-dimensional (quasi-1D) nanostructures. Due to the fact that the most stable 2D monolayer polymorph of MXs is the 1H phase, to date, existing studies in the literature have predominantly focused on the NRs formed from 1H phase MXs. Nevertheless, NRs of the 1T phase have received little to no attention. Employing ab initio simulations based on density functional theory, we systematically compared the thermodynamic stability of hydrogen passivated and unpassivated 1T and 1H ZNRs of GaS, GaSe, and InSe. Our results reveal that 1T phase MX ZNRs are thermodynamically favorable at widths up to 34 nm, a range that is realizable through contemporary experimental fabrication techniques. Furthermore, unlike metallic 1H ZNRs, 1T ZNRs remain semiconductor and retain a Mexican-hat-shaped top valence band without any built-in potential between the edges. Complementarily, hydrogenation energies of 1T InSe ZNRs are positive, and due to the edge-localized states, the 1T unpassivated ZNRs possess nearly flat top valence bands. Our findings serve as a compass for subsequent synthesis pathways of group III-VI NRs.


---
# Study the quantum resolution sizes and atomic bonding states of two-dimensional tin monoxide

## 研究二维一氧化锡的量子分辨率大小和原子成键状态

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.06169

**Authors:** Yu Wang, Yunhu Zhu, Yixin Li, Maolin Bo

arXiv:2412.06169v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Understanding the interatomic bonding and electronic properties of two-dimensional (2D) materials is crucial for preparing high-performance 2D semiconductor materials. We have calculated the band structure, electronic properties, and bonding characteristics of SnO in 2D materials by using density functional theory (DFT) and combining bond energy and bond charge models. Atomic bonding analysis enables us to deeply and meticulously analyze the interatomic bonding and charge transfer in the layered structure of SnO. This study greatly enhances our understanding of the local bonding state on the surface of 2D structural materials. In addition, we use the renormalization method to operate energy to determine the wave function at different quantum resolutions. This is of great significance for describing the size and phase transition of nanomaterials.


---
# Charge transport limited by nonlocal electron-phonon interaction. II. Numerically exact quantum dynamics in the slow-phonon regime

## 非局域电子-声子相互作用限制的电荷传输.二。慢声子状态下的数值精确量子动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.05055

**Authors:** Veljko Jankovi\'c

arXiv:2501.05055v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Transport of charge carriers in mechanically soft semiconductors is mainly limited by their interaction with slow intermolecular phonons. Carrier motion exhibits a crossover from superdiffusive to subdiffusive, producing a distinct low-frequency peak in the dynamical-mobility profile. These features can be understood within approaches relying on the timescale separation between carrier and phonon dynamics, such as the transient localization scenario (TLS). However, recovering them from fully quantum dynamics has proved elusive. Using the hierarchical equations of motion (HEOM)-based approach exposed in a companion paper (arXiv:2501.05054), we study carrier transport in the one-dimensional Peierls model near the adiabatic limit. We find that the TLS approximates HEOM dynamics very well at higher temperatures and for stronger interactions. Then, the transport is predominantly phonon-assisted, and turns diffusive from the subdiffusive side well before one phonon period. In contrast, the band current dominates at moderate temperatures and interactions, relevant for transport in realistic materials. We then conclude that the super-to-subdiffusive crossover is transient, so that the diffusive motion sets in from the superdiffusive side after a couple of phonon periods. The low-frequency dynamical mobility then additionally exhibits a dip at approximately one phonon frequency, and the zero-frequency peak. Our findings in this moderate regime show limitations of the TLS, and support the results of the most advanced quantum-classical simulations. We expect that the qualitative differences between HEOM and TLS dynamics would diminish for a more realistic phonon density of states.


---
# Encoded probabilistic imaginary-time evolution on a trapped-ion quantum computer for ground and excited states of spin qubits

## 在俘获离子量子计算机上编码自旋量子位的基态和激发态的概率虚数时间演化

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.10555

**Authors:** Hirofumi Nishi, Yuki Takei, Taichi Kosugi, Shunsuke Mieda, Yutaka Natsume, Takeshi Aoyagi, Yu-ichiro Matsushita

arXiv:2407.10555v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: In this study, we employed a quantum computer to solve a low-energy effective Hamiltonian for spin defects in diamond (so-called NV centre) and wurtzite-type aluminium nitride, which are anticipated to be qubits. The probabilistic imaginary-time evolution (PITE) method, designed for use in a fault-tolerant quantum computer (FTQC) era, was employed to calculate the ground and excited states of the spin singlet state, as represented by the effective Hamiltonian. It is difficult to compute the spin singlet state correctly using density functional theory (DFT), which should be described by multiple Slater determinants. To mitigate the effects of quantum errors inherent in current quantum computers, we implemented a $[[ n+2,n,2 ]]$ quantum error detection (QED) code called the Iceberg code. Despite the inevitable destruction of the encoded state resulting from the measurement of the ancilla qubit at each PITE step, we were able to successfully re-encode and recover the logical success state. In the implementation of the PITE, it was observed that the effective Hamiltonian comprises large components of the diagonal part and a relatively small non-diagonal part, which is frequently the case with quantum chemistry calculations. An efficient implementation of Hamiltonian simulations, in which the diagonal components dominate, was developed on a quantum computer based on the second-order Trotter-Suzuki decomposition. This is the first instance of an encoded PITE circuit being executed on a trapped-ion quantum computer. Our results demonstrate that QED effectively reduces quantum errors and that we successfully obtained both the ground and excited states of the spin singlet state. Our demonstration clearly manifests that Zr$_{\rm Al}$V$_{\rm N}$, Ti$_{\rm Al}$V$_{\rm N}$, and Hf$_{\rm Al}$V$_{\rm N}$ defects have a high potential as spin qubits for quantum sensors.


---
# Repulsive interatomic potentials calculated at three levels of theory

## 在三个理论水平上计算的排斥原子间势

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.06617

**Authors:** Kai Nordlund, Susi Lehtola, Gerhard Hobler

arXiv:2501.06617v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The high-energy repulsive interaction between nuclei at distances much smaller than the equilibrium bond length is the key quantity determining the nuclear stopping power and atom scattering in keV and MeV radiation events. This interaction is traditionally modeled within orbital-free density functional theory with frozen atomic electron densities, following the Ziegler-Biersack-Littmark (ZBL) model. In this work, we calculate atom pair specific repulsive interatomic potentials with the ZBL model, and compare them to two kinds of quantum chemical calculations - second-order M{\o}ller-Plesset perturbation theory in flexible Gaussian basis sets as well as density functional theory with numerical atomic orbital basis sets - which go well beyond the limitations in the ZBL model, allowing the density to relax in the calculations. We show that the repulsive interatomic potentials predicted by the two quantum chemical models agree within $\sim$ 1% for potential energies above 30 eV, while the ZBL pair-specific potentials and universal ZBL potentials differ much more from either of these calculations. We provide new pair-specific fits of the screening functions in terms of 3 exponentials to the calculations for all pairs $Z_1$-$Z_2$ for $1 \leq Z_i \leq 92$, and show that they agree within $\sim 2$% with the raw data. We use the new potentials to simulate ion implantation depth profiles in single crystalline Si and show very good agreement with experiment. However, we also show that under channeling conditions, the attractive part of the potential can affect the depth profiles. The full data sets of all the calculated interatomic potentials as well as analytic fits to the data are shared as open access.


---
# Anomalous Ultrafast Thermalization of Photoexcited Carriers in Two-Dimensional Materials Induced by Orbital Coupling

## 轨道耦合引起的二维材料中光激发载流子的反常超快热化

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.06412

**Authors:** Zhuoqun Wen, Haiyu Zhu, Wenhao Liu, Zhi Wang, Wen Xiong, Xingzhan Wei

arXiv:2501.06412v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Understanding the dynamics of photoexcited carriers is essential for advancing photoelectronic device design. Photon absorption generates electron-hole pairs, and subsequent scatterings can induce ultrafast thermalization within a picosecond, forming a quasi-equilibrium distribution with overheated electrons. The high-energy tail of this distribution enables carriers to overcome energy barriers, thereby enhancing quantum efficiency--a phenomenon known as photo-thermionic emission (PTE). Despite its importance, the onset and mechanisms of PTE remain under debate. Using real-time time-dependent density functional theory (rt-TDDFT), we investigate ultrafast carrier thermalization in two-dimensional materials graphene and PtTe2, and the results reveal distinct differences. In graphene, both electrons and holes thermalize into Fermi-Dirac distributions with good agreement to experiment, while PtTe2 exhibits anomalous high-energy tails for both electrons and holes, deviating significantly from Fermi-Dirac behavior. We attribute this anomaly to differences in orbital coupling between the two materials, from which we derive design principles for identifying optimal PTE candidates and, ultimately, improving photodetector performance.


---
# From Solution to Surface: Persistence of the Diradical Character of a Diindenoanthracene Derivative on a Metallic Substrate

## 从溶液到表面: 二茚并蒽衍生物在金属基底上的双自由基特性的持久性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.07285

**Authors:** Jeremy Hieulle, Carlos Garcia Fernandez, Niklas Friedrich, Alessio Vegliante, Sofia Sanz, Daniel Sanchez-Portal, Michael M. Haley, Juan Casado, Thomas Frederiksen, Jose Ignacio Pascual

arXiv:2501.07285v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Organic diradicals are envisioned as elementary building blocks for designing a new generation of spintronic devices and have been used in constructing prototypical field effect transistors and non-linear optical devices. Open-shell systems, however, are also reactive, thus requiring design strategies to protect their radical character from the environment, especially when they are embedded into solid-state devices. Here, we report the persistence on a metallic surface of the diradical character of a diindeno[b,i]anthracene (DIAn) core protected by bulky end-groups. Our scanning tunneling spectroscopy measurements on single-molecules detected singlet-triplet excitations that were absent for DIAn species packed in assembled structures. Density functional theory simulations unravel that molecular geometry on the metal substrate can crucially modify the value of the single-triplet gap via the delocalization of the radical sites. The persistence of the diradical character over metallic substrates is a promising finding for integrating radical-based materials in functional devices.


---
# Theoretical characterization of NV-like defects in 4H-SiC using ADAQ with the SCAN and r2SCAN meta-GGA functionals

## 使用具有SCAN和r2SCAN meta-gga功能的ADAQ对4H-SiC中NV类缺陷的理论表征

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.07289

**Authors:** Ghulam Abbas, Oscar Bulancea-Lindvall, Joel Davidsson, Rickard Armiento, Igor A. Abrikosov

arXiv:2501.07289v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Kohn-Sham density functional theory (DFT) is widely used for screening color centers in semiconductors. While the Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof (PBE) functional is efficient, it often lacks precision in describing defects. The Heyd-Scuseria-Ernzerhof (HSE) functional is more accurate but computationally expensive, making it impractical for large-scale screening. However, third-rung functionals of "Jacob's ladder" remain largely under explored in this context. This study evaluates the Strongly Constrained and Appropriately Normed (SCAN) family of meta-GGA functionals as potential alternatives to PBE for characterizing NV-like color centers in 4H-SiC using the Automatic Defect Analysis and Qualification (ADAQ) framework. We examine nitrogen, oxygen, fluorine, sulfur, and chlorine vacancies in 4H-SiC, focusing on applications in quantum technology. Our results show that SCAN and r2SCAN achieve greater accuracy than PBE, approaching HSE's precision at a lower computational cost. This suggests that the SCAN family offers a practical improvement for screening new color centers, with computational demands similar to PBE.


---
# Capillary Pressure-Saturation relation derived from the Pore Morphology Method

## 由孔隙形态法导出的毛细管压力-饱和度关系

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.07355

**Authors:** Fernando Alonso-Marroquin, Martin P. Andersson

arXiv:2501.07355v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: A computationally efficient method to calculate the capillary pressure-saturation relations of immiscible multiphase flow on two-dimensional pore morphologies is presented here. The method is an extension of the Pore Morphology Method that includes wetting angle and trapped mechanism of the displaced fluid, and calculation of material properties by density functional theory. After validating the method with micro-chip fluid injection experiments, the method is used to relate pore morphology to capillary pressure-saturation relation using square-lattice pore morphologies. Because the method uses only morphological binary operations, it is more efficient than well-established high-resolution voxel dynamics methods such as Lattice Boltzmann Methods and Level-set computational fluid dynamics. Apart from pore morphology, only the material parameters related to contact angle (wettability) and interfacial tension are required to connect the pore-saturation relation and pore throat distribution. We investigate the effect on interfacial tension, wettability, sample size, and pore throat distribution on entry pressure and residual saturation.


---
# Detecting charge transfer at defects in 2D materials with electron ptychography

## 通过电子照相检测2D材料中缺陷处的电荷转移

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.04469

**Authors:** Christoph Hofer, Jacob Madsen, Toma Susi, Timothy J. Pennycook

arXiv:2301.04469v5 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Electronic charge transfer at the atomic scale can reveal fundamental information about chemical bonding, but is far more challenging to directly image than the atomic structure. The charge density is dominated by the atomic nuclei, with bonding causing only a small perturbation. Thus detecting any change due to bonding requires a higher level of sensitivity than imaging structure and the overall charge density. Here we achieve the sensitivity required to detect charge transfer in both pristine and defected monolayer WS\textsubscript{2} using the high dose efficiency of electron ptychography and its ability to correct for lens aberrations. Excellent agreement is achieved with first-principles image simulations including where thermal diffuse scattering is explicitly modeled via finite-temperature molecular dynamics based on density functional theory. The focused-probe ptychography configuration we use also provides the important ability to concurrently collect the annular dark-field signal, which can be unambiguously interpreted in terms of the atomic structure and chemical identity of the atoms, independently of the charge transfer. Our results demonstrate both the power of ptychographic reconstructions and the importance of quantitatively accurate simulations to aid their interpretation.


---
# Charge transport limited by nonlocal electron-phonon interaction. II. Numerically exact quantum dynamics in the slow-phonon regime

## 非局域电子-声子相互作用限制的电荷传输.二。慢声子状态下的数值精确量子动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.05055

**Authors:** Veljko Jankovi\'c

arXiv:2501.05055v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Transport of charge carriers in mechanically soft semiconductors is mainly limited by their interaction with slow intermolecular phonons. Carrier motion exhibits a crossover from superdiffusive to subdiffusive, producing a distinct low-frequency peak in the dynamical-mobility profile. These features can be understood within approaches relying on the timescale separation between carrier and phonon dynamics, such as the transient localization scenario (TLS). However, recovering them from fully quantum dynamics has proved elusive. Using the hierarchical equations of motion (HEOM)-based approach exposed in a companion paper (arXiv:2501.05054), we study carrier transport in the one-dimensional Peierls model near the adiabatic limit. We find that the TLS approximates HEOM dynamics very well at higher temperatures and for stronger interactions. Then, the transport is predominantly phonon-assisted, and turns diffusive from the subdiffusive side well before one phonon period. In contrast, the band current dominates at moderate temperatures and interactions, relevant for transport in realistic materials. We then conclude that the super-to-subdiffusive crossover is transient, so that the diffusive motion sets in from the superdiffusive side after a couple of phonon periods. The low-frequency dynamical mobility then additionally exhibits a dip at approximately one phonon frequency, and the zero-frequency peak. Our findings in this moderate regime show limitations of the TLS, and support the results of the most advanced quantum-classical simulations. We expect that the qualitative differences between HEOM and TLS dynamics would diminish for a more realistic phonon density of states.


---
# Isotope Engineering in Tetraphenylethylene: Aggregate-Dependent Photophysical Enhancements

## 四苯乙烯中的同位素工程: 依赖于聚集体的光物理增强

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-lq26q?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Tang, Ben Zhong

Aggregation-induced emission (AIE) luminogens, exemplified by tetraphenylethylene (TPE), exhibit enhanced fluorescence in aggregated states and have promising applications in display, photodetectors, fluorescent probes, bioimaging, and biomedicine. This study investigates the influence of varying degrees of deuteration on the photophysical properties of TPE across different aggregation states. Through the synthesis of partially and fully deuterated TPE derivatives (TPE-5d, TPE-10d, TPE-20d), combined with steady-state fluorescence spectroscopy, time-resolved fluorescence measurements, transient absorption spectroscopy, and density functional theory (DFT) calculations, we elucidate the dual role of deuteration in modulating non-radiative decay pathways. In loosely packed nanoaggregates, increased deuteration enhances photoluminescence quantum yields (PLQY) and extends fluorescence lifetimes by reducing internal conversion rates. Conversely, in tightly packed crystalline states, deuteration leads to decreased PLQY and shortened lifetimes, attributable to the Duschinsky rotation effect (DRE), which enhances inter-mode coupling and internal conversion. Additionally, deuteration significantly prolongs the operational lifetime of blue organic light-emitting diode (OLED) devices, decuplicating the device lifespan in deuterated TPE-20d compared to non-deuterated TPE. This work underscores the necessity of evaluating structure-property relationships at the aggregate level, rather than solely at the molecular level, to fully comprehend and optimize AIE phenomena. These findings highlight the potential of isotope engineering in designing durable and efficient AIE luminogens for applications in optoelectronics and bioimaging.

