# Author Correction: Snapshotting quantum dynamics at multiple time points

## 作者更正: 在多个时间点拍摄量子动力学

Link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-025-56038-y

**Authors:** Kihwan Kim

<p>Nature Communications, Published online: 13 January 2025; <a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-025-56038-y">doi:10.1038/s41467-025-56038-y</a></p>Author Correction: Snapshotting quantum dynamics at multiple time points


---
# Prediction of high-temperature ambient-pressure superconductivity in hexagonal boron-rich clathrates

## 六方富硼包合物中高温环境压力超导电性的预测

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.111.014510

**Authors:** Bin Li, Yuxiang Fan, Chuanhui Yin, Junjie Zhai, Cong Zhu, Zhisi Cao, Jie Cheng, and Shengli Liu

Author(s): Bin Li, Yuxiang Fan, Chuanhui Yin, Junjie Zhai, Cong Zhu, Zhisi Cao, Jie Cheng, and Shengli Liu<br /><p>Inspired by recent predictions of superconductivity in B-C framework clathrates, we employ density functional theory to explore potential superconductors among hexagonal hydride-substituted compounds with compositions $X{\mathrm{B}}_{8}\mathrm{C}, X{\mathrm{B}}_{7}{\mathrm{C}}_{2}, X{\mathrm{B}}_{6}…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 111, 014510] Published Mon Jan 13, 2025


---
# Atomic-resolution structural and spectroscopic evidence for the synthetic realization of two-dimensional copper boride

## 二维硼化铜合成实现的原子分辨率结构和光谱证据

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.05659

**Authors:** Hui Li, Qiyuan Ruan, Cataldo Lamarca, Albert Tsui, Boris I. Yakobson, Mark C. Hersam

arXiv:2501.05659v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Since the first realization of borophene on Ag(111), two-dimensional (2D) boron nanomaterials have attracted significant interest due to their polymorphic diversity and potential for hosting solid-state quantum phenomena. Here, we use atomic-resolution scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) and field-emission resonance (FER) spectroscopy to elucidate the structure and properties of atomically thin boron phases grown on Cu(111). Specifically, FER spectroscopy reveals unique charge transfer and electronic states compared to the distinct borophene phases observed on silver, suggesting that the deposition of boron on copper can result in strong covalent bonding characteristic of a 2D copper boride. This conclusion is reinforced by detailed STM characterization of line defects that are consistent with density functional theory (DFT) calculations for atomically thin Cu8B14. This evidence for 2D copper boride is likely to motivate future synthetic efforts aimed at expanding the relatively unexplored family of atomically thin metal boride materials.


---
# Two-quanta processes in coupled double-quantum-dot cavity systems

## 耦合双量子点腔系统中的双量子过程

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.05967

**Authors:** Tatiana Mihaescu, Aurelian Isar, Mihai A Macovei

arXiv:2501.05967v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The quantum dynamics of a compound sample consisting from a semiconductor double quantum dot (DQD) system non-linearly coupled with a leaking single-mode micro-resonator is theoretically investigated. The focus is on the resonance condition when the transition frequency of the double quantum dot equals to the doubled resonator frequency, respectively, and the resulting interplay among the involved phonon or photon channels. As a result, the steady-state quantum dynamics of this complex non-linear system exhibits a variety of possible effects that have been demonstrated here. Particularly, we have found the relationship among the electrical current through the double quantum dot and the microwave field inside the resonator that is nonlinearly coupled to it, with a corresponding emphasizing on their critical behaviors. Additionally, the quantum correlations of the photon flux generated into the resonator mode vary from super-Poissonian to Poissonian photon statistics, leading to single-qubit lasing phenomena at microwave frequencies.


---
# Electron-phonon coupling in lattice engineering of lithium niobate single crystal thin films

## 铌酸锂单晶薄膜晶格工程中的电子-声子耦合

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.05060

**Authors:** Guoqiang Shi, Kunfeng Chen, Hui Hu, Gongbin Tang, Dongfeng Xue

arXiv:2501.05060v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Lithium niobate (LN) single crystal thin films are a high-performance photonic platform with applications in electro-optic modulators, nonlinear optical devices, optical frequency combs, and acousto-optic modulators. LN's significance in photonics parallels silicon's in electronics, addressing challenges like high power consumption and slow communication speeds, and offering potential for broad applications in optical communications, quantum computing, and artificial intelligence. Despite progress in developing LN-based photonic structures, achieving low-loss, reconfigurable, and large-scale devices requires improved processing techniques. This work introduces a quantum design methodology based on LN's crystal structure, utilizing electron-phonon coupling through external field perturbations. Multiscale structural analysis is performed with techniques such as time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry, aberration-corrected transmission electron microscopy, and X-ray absorption spectra to identify and control defect structures. Angle-resolved Raman spectroscopy, femtosecond transient absorption spectroscopy, and Density Functional Theory further reveal the mechanisms of electron-phonon coupling. These findings establish a framework for designing LN-based quantum devices with enhanced performance and diverse functionalities.


---
# Atomic Ionization: sd energy imbalance and Perdew-Zunger self-interaction correction energy penalty in 3d atoms

## 原子电离: 3d原子中的sd能量不平衡和perdew-zunger自相互作用校正能量惩罚

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.07438

**Authors:** Rohan Maniar, Priyanka B. Shukla, J. Karl Johnson, Koblar A. Jackson, John P. Perdew

arXiv:2409.07438v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: To accurately describe the energetics of transition metal systems, density functional approximations (DFAs) must provide a balanced description of s- and d- electrons. One measure of this is the sd transfer error, which has previously been defined as $E(\mathrm{3d}^{n-1}\mathrm{4s}^{1}) - E(\mathrm{3d}^{n-2}\mathrm{4s}^{2})$. Theoretical concerns have been raised about this definition due to its evaluation of excited-state energies using ground-state DFAs. A more serious concern appears to be strong correlation in the ${4s}^2$ configuration. Here we define a ground-state measure of the sd energy imbalance, based on the errors of s- and d-electron second ionization energies of the 3d atoms, that effectively circumvents the aforementioned problems. We find an improved performance as we move from LSDA to PBE to r$^2$SCAN for first-row transition metal atoms. However, we find large (~ 2 eV) ground-state sd energy imbalances when applying a Perdew-Zunger 1981 self-interaction correction. This is attributed to an "energy penalty" associated with the noded 3d orbitals. A local scaling of the self-interaction correction to LSDA results in a balance of s- and d-errors.


---
# Developing Orbital-Dependent Corrections for the Non-Additive Kinetic Energy in Subsystem Density Functional Theory

## 在子系统密度泛函理论中开发非加性动能的轨道相关校正

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.11914

**Authors:** Larissa Sophie Eitelhuber, Denis G. Artiukhin

arXiv:2409.11914v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We present a novel route to constructing cost-efficient semi-empirical approximations for the non-additive kinetic energy in subsystem density functional theory. The developed methodology is based on the use of Slater determinants composed of non-orthogonal Kohn$\unicode{x2013}$Sham-like orbitals for the evaluation of kinetic energy expectation values and the expansion of the inverse molecular-orbital overlap matrix into a Neumann series. Applying these techniques, we derived and implemented a series of orbital-dependent approximations for the non-additive kinetic energy, which are employed self-consistently. Our proof-of-principle computations demonstrated quantitatively correct results for potential energy curves and electron densities and hinted on the applicability of the introduced empirical parameters to different types of molecular systems and intermolecular interactions. We therefore conclude that the presented study is an important step towards constructing accurate and efficient orbital-dependent approximations for the non-additive kinetic energy applicable to large molecular systems.


---
# Simplified tuning of long-range corrected time-dependent density functional theory

## 长程校正的时变密度泛函理论的简化调谐

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-7js76-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Aniket , Mandal

Range-separated hybrid functionals have dramatically improved the description of charge-transfer excitations in time-dependent density functional theory (TD-DFT), especially when the range-separation parameter is adjusted in order   to satisfy the ionization energy (IE) criterion, eHOMO = –IE.   However, this "optimal tuning"  procedure is molecule-specific, inconvenient, expensive for large systems, and problematic in extended or periodic systems. Here, we consider an alternative procedure  known as global density-dependent (GDD) tuning, which sets the range-separation parameter in an automated way based on properties of the exchange hole. In small molecules, we find that both IE- and GDD-tuned functionals afford remarkably similar TD-DFT  excitation energies, for both valence and charge-transfer excitations.   However, GDD tuning is more efficient and is  well-behaved even for large systems, providing a black-box solution to the optimal-tuning problem that can replace IE tuning for many applications of TD-DFT.


---
# Evolution Path of Nitrogen-Water Cluster Cation: A Theoretical Study

## 氮-水团簇阳离子演化路径的理论研究

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-3nnbx-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Zile, Zhu

We applied a highly accurate Density Functional Theory (DFT) method to obtain thermodynamic data for various water-nitrogen clusters. In combination with ab initio molecular dynamics (AIMD) simulations and wavefunction analysis, we proposed a theoretical pathway for the evolution of nitrogen-water cation clusters, offering insights into the formation of oxidative environments. Our calculations reveal that nitrogen molecules can form weak bonds with certain hydrogen-oxygen cations, stabilizing key intermediates during hydroxyl radical transfer. Such interaction alters the cluster’s evolution. Our findings show a clear map of how nitrogen-water cluster cations evolve and give oxidative reactants.

