# Forecasting long-time dynamics in quantum many-body systems by dynamic mode decomposition

## 通过动力学模式分解预测量子多体系统中的长期动力学

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevResearch.7.013085

**Authors:** Ryui Kaneko, Masatoshi Imada, Yoshiyuki Kabashima, and Tomi Ohtsuki

Author(s): Ryui Kaneko, Masatoshi Imada, Yoshiyuki Kabashima, and Tomi Ohtsuki<br /><p>Reliable numerical computation of quantum dynamics is a fundamental challenge when the long-ranged quantum entanglement plays essential roles as in the cases governed by quantum criticality in strongly correlated systems. Here we apply a method that utilizes reliable short-time data of physical quan…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. Research 7, 013085] Published Thu Jan 23, 2025


---
# Multistage phase transitions in photoexcited ${\mathrm{ReS}}_{2}$ monolayer: Real-time time-dependent density functional theory calculations

## 光激发 ${\ mathrm{ReS }}_{ 2}$ 单层中的多级相变: 实时时间相关密度泛函理论计算

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.111.024111

**Authors:** Liyuan Chen (陈丽媛), Li Chen (陈立), Hongli Chen (陈红丽), Liyan Shang (商丽燕), Yawei Li (李亚巍), Liangqing Zhu (朱亮清), Shijing Gong (龚士静), and Zhigao Hu (胡志高)

Author(s): Liyuan Chen (陈丽媛), Li Chen (陈立), Hongli Chen (陈红丽), Liyan Shang (商丽燕), Yawei Li (李亚巍), Liangqing Zhu (朱亮清), Shijing Gong (龚士静), and Zhigao Hu (胡志高)<br /><p>Photoinduced phase transitions (PIPTs) allow complex interactions to be distinguished within the constraints of atomic motion. Here, using real-time time-dependent density functional theory (rt-TDDFT) simulations combined with occupation-constrained density functional theory (DFT) methods, we reveal…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 111, 024111] Published Thu Jan 23, 2025


---
# Structural and mechanical properties of W-Cu compounds characterized by a neural-network-based potential

## 基于神经网络的电位表征的w-cu化合物的结构和力学性能

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.12558

**Authors:** Jianchuan Liu, Tao Chen, Sheng Mao, Mohan Chenb

arXiv:2501.12558v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Tungsten-copper (W-Cu) compounds are widely utilized in various industrial fields due to their exceptional mechanical properties. In this study, we have developed a neural-network-based deep potential (DP) model that covers a wide range of temperatures, ranging from 0 to 3,000 K, and pressures, varying from 0 to 10 GPa. This study presents a model trained using density functional theory data for full concentration CuxW100-x compounds. Through this model, we systematically investigate the structural and mechanical properties of W-Cu alloys and have the following findings. First, the bulk modulus (B) and Young's modulus (E) of W-Cu alloys exhibit a linear decline as the Cu content increases, indicating a softening trend in the CuxW100-x compounds as the Cu concentration rises. Second, a higher Cu content results in higher critical strain and lower critical stress for these compounds. A brittle-to-ductile transition in the deformation mode predicted is predicted at around 37.5 at. % Cu content. Third, tensile loading tests in the W-Cu gradient structure reveal that Cu-poor region serves as a barrier, hindering shear band propagation while promoting new shear band formation in the Cu-rich region. The above results from the DP model are anticipated to aid in exploring the physical mechanisms underlying the complex phenomena of W-Cu systems and contribute to the advancement of methodologies for materials simulation.


---
# Absence of superconductivity and density-wave transition in ambient-pressure tetragonal La$_4$Ni$_3$O$_{10}$

## 常压四方La $_4 $ Ni $_3 $ O $_{10}$ 中不存在超导性和密度波跃迁

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.12647

**Authors:** Mengzhu Shi, Yikang Li, Yuxing Wang, Di Peng, Shaohua Yang, Houpu Li, Kaibao Fan, Kun Jiang, Junfeng He, Qiaoshi Zeng, Dongsheng Song, Binghui Ge, Ziji Xiang, Zhenyu Wang, Jianjun Ying, Tao Wu, Xianhui Chen

arXiv:2501.12647v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The recent discovery of superconductivity in La$_3$Ni$_2$O$_7$ and La$_4$Ni$_3$O$_{10}$ under high pressure stimulates intensive research interests. These nickelates crystallize in an orthogonal/monoclinic structure with tilted NiO$_6$ octahedra at ambient pressure and enter a density-wave-like phase at low temperatures. The application of pressure suppresses the octahedral tilting and triggers a transition to tetragonal structure (I4/mmm), which is believed to be a key prerequisite for the emergence of superconducting state. Here, by developing a high oxidative environment growth technology, we report the first tetragonal nickelates La$_4$Ni$_3$O$_{10}$ microcrystals without octahedral tilting at ambient pressure. In tetragonal La$_4$Ni$_3$O$_{10}$, transport measurements find that both density-wave and superconducting transitions are absent up to 160 GPa, indicating a robust tetragonal metallic ground state. Density functional theory calculations reveal that the band structure of ambient-pressure tetragonal La$_4$Ni$_3$O$_{10}$ involves more $d_{z2}$ orbital contribution to the Fermi surface, compared to the monoclinic phase or the high-pressure superconducting tetragonal phase. The concurrent absence of density-wave state and high-pressure superconductivity in our ambient-pressure tetragonal crystals of La$_4$Ni$_3$O$_{10}$ suggests an underlying correlation between these two orders. It suggests that the tetragonal structure is not necessary, while the density-wave state is crucial for the superconductivity in nickelates. Our findings impose important constraints on the mechanism of pressure-induced superconductivity in nickelates and sheds new light on exploring ambient pressure high-temperature Ni-based superconductors.


---
# A Denser Hydrogen Inferred from First-Principles Simulations Challenges Jupiter's Interior Models

## 从第一原理模拟中推断出的更密集的氢挑战了木星的内部模型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.12925

**Authors:** Cesare Cozza, Kousuke Nakano, Saburo Howard, Hao Xie, Ravit Helled, Guglielmo Mazzola

arXiv:2501.12925v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: First-principle modeling of dense hydrogen is crucial in materials and planetary sciences. Despite its apparent simplicity, predicting the ionic and electronic structure of hydrogen is a formidable challenge, and it is connected with the insulator-to-metal transition, a century-old problem in condensed matter. Accurate simulations of liquid hydrogen are also essential for modeling gas giant planets. Here we perform an exhaustive study of the equation of state of hydrogen using Density Functional Theory and quantum Monte Carlo simulations. We find that the pressure predicted by Density Functional Theory may vary qualitatively when using different functionals. The predictive power of first-principle simulations is restored by validating each functional against higher-level wavefunction theories, represented by computationally intensive variational and diffusion Monte Carlo calculations. Our simulations provide evidence that hydrogen is denser at planetary conditions, compared to currently used equations of state. For Jupiter, this implies a lower bulk metallicity (i.e., a smaller mass of heavy elements). Our results further amplify the inconsistency between Jupiter's atmospheric metallicity measured by the Galileo probe and the envelope metallicity inferred from interior models.


---
# Hydrogen and Deuterium Tunneling in Niobium

## 铌中的氢和氘隧穿

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.09014

**Authors:** Abdulaziz Abogoda, W. A. Shelton, I. Vekhter, J. A. Sauls

arXiv:2409.09014v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We use density functional methods to identify the atomic configurations of H and D atoms trapped by O impurities and embedded in bulk Nb. We calculate the double-well potential for O-H and O-D impurities, wave functions, and tunnel splittings for H and D atoms. Our results are in agreement with those obtained from analysis of heat capacity and neutron scattering measurements on Nb with low concentrations of O-H and O-D.


---
# Towards Quantum Simulation of Non-Markovian Open Quantum Dynamics: A Universal and Compact Theory

## 走向非马尔可夫开放量子动力学的量子模拟: 一个普遍而紧凑的理论

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.17255

**Authors:** Xiang Li, Su-Xiang Lyu, Yao Wang, Rui-Xue Xu, Xiao Zheng, YiJing Yan

arXiv:2401.17255v4 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Non-Markovianity, the intricate dependence of an open quantum system on its temporal evolution history, holds tremendous implications across various scientific disciplines. However, accurately characterizing the complex non-Markovian effects has posed a formidable challenge for numerical simulations. While quantum computing technologies show promise, a universal theory enabling practical quantum algorithm implementation has been elusive. We address this gap by introducing the dissipaton-embedded quantum master equation in second quantization (DQME-SQ). This exact and compact theory offers two key advantages: representability by quantum circuits and universal applicability to any Gaussian environment. We demonstrate these capabilities through digital quantum simulations of non-Markovian dissipative dynamics in both bosonic and fermionic environments. The DQME-SQ framework opens a new horizon for the efficient exploration of complex open quantum systems by leveraging the rapidly advancing quantum computing technologies.


---
# Designing open quantum systems with known steady states: Davies generators and beyond

## 设计具有已知稳态的开放量子系统: 戴维斯发生器及其他

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.14538

**Authors:** Jinkang Guo, Oliver Hart, Chi-Fang Chen, Aaron J. Friedman, Andrew Lucas

arXiv:2404.14538v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: We provide a systematic framework for constructing generic models of nonequilibrium quantum dynamics with a target stationary (mixed) state. Our framework identifies (almost) all combinations of Hamiltonian and dissipative dynamics that relax to a steady state of interest, generalizing the Davies' generator for dissipative relaxation at finite temperature to nonequilibrium dynamics targeting arbitrary stationary states. We focus on Gibbs states of stabilizer Hamiltonians, identifying local Lindbladians compatible therewith by constraining the rates of dissipative and unitary processes. Moreover, given terms in the Lindbladian not compatible with the target state, our formalism identifies the operations -- including syndrome measurements and local feedback -- one must apply to correct these errors. Our methods also reveal new models of quantum dynamics: for example, we provide a "measurement-induced phase transition" in which measurable two-point functions exhibit critical (power-law) scaling with distance at a critical ratio of the transverse field and rate of measurement and feedback. Time-reversal symmetry -- defined naturally within our formalism -- can be broken both in effectively classical and intrinsically quantum ways. Our framework provides a systematic starting point for exploring the landscape of dynamical universality classes in open quantum systems, as well as identifying new protocols for quantum error correction.


---
# A Denser Hydrogen Inferred from First-Principles Simulations Challenges Jupiter's Interior Models

## 从第一原理模拟中推断出的更密集的氢挑战了木星的内部模型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.12925

**Authors:** Cesare Cozza, Kousuke Nakano, Saburo Howard, Hao Xie, Ravit Helled, Guglielmo Mazzola

arXiv:2501.12925v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: First-principle modeling of dense hydrogen is crucial in materials and planetary sciences. Despite its apparent simplicity, predicting the ionic and electronic structure of hydrogen is a formidable challenge, and it is connected with the insulator-to-metal transition, a century-old problem in condensed matter. Accurate simulations of liquid hydrogen are also essential for modeling gas giant planets. Here we perform an exhaustive study of the equation of state of hydrogen using Density Functional Theory and quantum Monte Carlo simulations. We find that the pressure predicted by Density Functional Theory may vary qualitatively when using different functionals. The predictive power of first-principle simulations is restored by validating each functional against higher-level wavefunction theories, represented by computationally intensive variational and diffusion Monte Carlo calculations. Our simulations provide evidence that hydrogen is denser at planetary conditions, compared to currently used equations of state. For Jupiter, this implies a lower bulk metallicity (i.e., a smaller mass of heavy elements). Our results further amplify the inconsistency between Jupiter's atmospheric metallicity measured by the Galileo probe and the envelope metallicity inferred from interior models.


---
# Towards Quantum Simulation of Non-Markovian Open Quantum Dynamics: A Universal and Compact Theory

## 走向非马尔可夫开放量子动力学的量子模拟: 一个普遍而紧凑的理论

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.17255

**Authors:** Xiang Li, Su-Xiang Lyu, Yao Wang, Rui-Xue Xu, Xiao Zheng, YiJing Yan

arXiv:2401.17255v4 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Non-Markovianity, the intricate dependence of an open quantum system on its temporal evolution history, holds tremendous implications across various scientific disciplines. However, accurately characterizing the complex non-Markovian effects has posed a formidable challenge for numerical simulations. While quantum computing technologies show promise, a universal theory enabling practical quantum algorithm implementation has been elusive. We address this gap by introducing the dissipaton-embedded quantum master equation in second quantization (DQME-SQ). This exact and compact theory offers two key advantages: representability by quantum circuits and universal applicability to any Gaussian environment. We demonstrate these capabilities through digital quantum simulations of non-Markovian dissipative dynamics in both bosonic and fermionic environments. The DQME-SQ framework opens a new horizon for the efficient exploration of complex open quantum systems by leveraging the rapidly advancing quantum computing technologies.


---
# The Type D Hyperporphyrin Effect

## D型超卟啉效应

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-40cnn?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Jeanet, Conradie

DFT and TDDFT calculations lend credence to the importance of a Type D resonance form for triply protonated 5,10,15-tris(4-aminophenyl)-20-(4-pyridyl)porphyrin (with all central nitrogens and the pyridine nitrogen protonated), in which all four meso-aryl groups engage in conjugative interactions with the porphyrin core. The LUMO of this species is strongly stabilized relative to the HOMO and LUMO+1 as a result of such an interaction with the pyridinium group, which leads to both a narrowing of the HOMO-LUMO gap and strongly split HOMO-to-LUMO and HOMO-to-LUMO+1 transitions in the Q region. This orbital energy pattern also explains key elements of the hyperporphyrin character of the species, strong redshifts of both the HOMO-to-LUMO transition in the Q region and the HOMO-1-to-LUMO transition in the Soret region.


---
# QCxMS2 - a program for the calculation of electron ion- ization mass spectra via automated reaction network dis- covery

## QCxMS2-通过自动反应网络开发计算电子电离质谱的程序

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-277zm?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Stefan , Grimme

We present a new fully-automated computational workflow for the calculation of electron ionization mass spectra by automated reaction network discovery, transition state theory and Monte-Carlo simulations. Compared to its predecessor QCxMS [S. Grimme Angew. Chem. Int. Ed., 52, 6306-6312] based on extensive molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, QCxMS2’s more efficient approach of using stationary points on the potential energy surface (PES) enables the usage of accurate quantum chemical methods. Fragment geometries and reaction paths are optimized with fast semi-empirical quantum mechanical (SQM) methods and reaction barriers are refined at the density functional theory (DFT) level. This composite approach using GFN2-xTB geometries in combination with energies at the ωB97X-3c level proved to be an efficient combination. On a small but diverse test set of 16 organic and inorganic molecules, QCxMS2 spectra are more accurate than ones from QCxMS yielding on average a higher mass spectral matching of 0.700 compared to QCxMS with 0.622, and QCxMS2 is more robust with a minimal matching of 0.498 versus 0.100. Further improvements were observed when both geometries and energies were computed at the ωB97X-3c level, yielding an average matching score of 0.730 and a minimal score of 0.527. Due to its higher accuracy and robustness while maintaining computational efficiency, we propose QCxMS2 as a complementary, more reliable and systematically improvable successor to QCxMS for elucidating fragmentation pathways and predicting electron ionization mass spectra of unknown chemical substances, e.g., in analytical chemistry applications. If coupled to currently developed improved SQM methods, QCxMS2 opens an efficient route to accurate, and routine mass spectra predictions. The QCxMS2 program suite is freely available on GitHub.

