# Band Structure Modeling of Perovskite Materials with Quantum ESPRESSO for Multijunction Photovoltaic Cell Optimization

## 用于多结光伏电池优化的具有量子浓缩咖啡的钙钛矿材料的能带结构建模

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.07760

**Authors:** Sutharsika Kumar Kalaiselvi

arXiv:2501.07760v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Increasing photovoltaic conversion efficiency, or PCE, has proven to be a critical factor in the transition to renewable energy. There exist strong interdependencies between the perovskite crystals and multijunction architectures within photovoltaic cell research. In present literature, there is a lack of intersection in investigating crystallographic geometry and compositional engineering with representation of computational modeling systems. In this paper, we propose a novel method for the rapid discovery of high-efficiency perovskite-based multijunction cells, specifically with silicon as the low band gap absorbing semiconductor material. We model the spatial geometries of potential perovskite candidates for high-efficiency cells using the Schrodinger Material Science Maestro, optimizing the periodic boundary conditions on the unit cell to minimize edge-bound errors. Band structure calculations using density functional theory become effective to approximate the PCE. After careful adjustments to the ibrav lattice parameter and parallelization, Quantum ESPRESSO was optimized for perovskite multijunction band structure calculations. Computational results on the six test-perovskite configurations demonstrate the effectiveness and superiority of our proposed representation and method, with a calculated efficiency of about 46% for one of the modeled perovskites, placing it at the top of high-efficiency perovskite-Si multijunction cells. With this method, the potential exists to bring forth a new generation of photovoltaic cells that are easily manufacturable, highly efficient, and economical.


---
# Origin of dimensional crossover in quasi-one-dimensional hollandite K$_{2}$Ru$_{8}$O$_{16}$

## 准一维hollandite K的尺寸交叉起源 $_{ 2}$ Ru $_{ 8}$ O $_{ 16}$

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.07822

**Authors:** Asif Ali, Sakshi Bansal, B. H. Reddy, Ravi Shankar Singh

arXiv:2501.07822v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Intriguing phenomenon of dimensional crossover is comprehensively studied by experimental and theoretical investigation of electronic structure in quasi-one-dimensional hollandite K$_{2}$Ru$_{8}$O$_{16}$. Valence band photoemission spectra in conjunction with density functional theory within local density approximation combined with dynamical mean field theory (LDA+DMFT) reveal moderately correlated electronic structure. Anomalous temperature dependence of high-resolution spectra in the vicinity of Fermi level suggests Tomonaga-Luttinger liquid state down to 150 K, below which it undergoes a dimensional crossover from one-dimensional to three-dimensional electronic behaviour. Monotonously decreasing spectral intensity at the Fermi level along with Fermi cut-off at low temperature suggests non-Fermi liquid like behaviour. Many body effects captured within LDA+DMFT reveal increased warping of the Fermi surface with lowering temperature. A simple analysis suggests that the warping dominates the thermal energy induced momentum broadening at low temperature, leading to the 3D electronic behaviour. Our results offer valuable insight in understanding the interplay of dimensionality, electron correlation and thermal energy governing various exotic phenomena in quasi-one-dimensional systems.


---
# The impact of alloying elements on the precipitation stability and kinetics in iron based alloys: An atomistic study

## 合金元素对铁基合金沉淀稳定性和动力学的影响: 原子研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.08078

**Authors:** Giovanni Bonny, Christophe Domain, Nicolas Castin, P\"ar Olsson, Lorenzo Malerba

arXiv:2501.08078v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Iron based industrial steels typically contain a large number of alloying elements, even so-called low alloyed steels. Under irradiation, these alloying elements form clusters that have a detrimental impact of the mechanical properties of the steel. The stability and formation mechanisms of such clusters are presently not fully understood. Therefore, in this work, we study the thermal stability and formation kinetics of small solute clusters in the bcc Fe matrix. We use density functional theory (DFT) to characterize the binding energy of vacancy/solute clusters containing Cr, Mn, Ni, Cu, Si and P, thereby exploring>700 different configurations. The constructed DFT data base is used to fit a cluster expansion (CE) for the vacancy-FeCrMnNiCuSiP system. In turn, the obtained CE is applied in atomistic kinetic Monte Carlo simulations to study the effect of Mn, Ni, Cr, Si and P on the precipitation formation in the FeCu alloy. We conclude that the addition of Mn and Ni delay the precipitation kinetics by an order of magnitude. The additional alloying with traces of P/Si further delays the kinetics by an additional order of magnitude. We found that Si plays an essential role in the formation of spatially mixed MnNiCuSi cluster.


---
# Pb-intercalated epitaxial graphene on SiC: Full insight into band structure and orbital character of interlayer Pb, and charge transfer into graphene

## SiC上的Pb插层外延石墨烯: 全面了解层间Pb的能带结构和轨道特征，以及电荷向石墨烯的转移

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.08172

**Authors:** Bharti Matta, Philipp Rosenzweig, Kathrin K\"uster, Craig Polley, Ulrich Starke

arXiv:2501.08172v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Intercalation is a robust approach for modulating the properties of epitaxial graphene on SiC and stabilizing two-dimensional (2D) intercalant layers at the graphene/SiC interface. In this work, we present synchrotron-based angle resolved photoelectron spectroscopy (ARPES) measurements focussing on the band structure of intercalated Pb under a single layer of epitaxial graphene. The interlayer Pb exhibits a metallic character, a $(1 \times 1)$ registry with respect to SiC, and free electron-like bands to a first order. Divergences from the free electron approximation include various band splittings and gaps throughout the Pb Brillouin zone. Light polarization dependent ARPES measurements indicate a predominant out-of-plane orbital character for the Pb bands, suggesting potential interactions between the interlayer Pb and graphene's $\pi$ orbitals that may induce proximity effects in graphene. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations for a $(1 \times 1)$ Pb monolayer on SiC show a reasonable qualitative agreement with the experimentally observed interlayer bands as well as the polarization dependent measurements. Finally, temperature dependent ARPES measurements reveal that the nearly charge-neutral graphene layer involves charge transfer from both the interlayer Pb and the substrate SiC.


---
# Kohn-Sham-Proca equations for ultrafast exciton dynamics

## 超快激子动力学的kohn-sham-proca方程

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.16140

**Authors:** J. K. Dewhurst, D. Gill, S. Shallcross, S. Sharma

arXiv:2401.16140v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: A long standing problem in time dependent density functional theory (TD-DFT) has been the absence of a functional able to capture excitonic physics under laser pump conditions. Here we introduce a Kohn-Sham-Proca scheme that we demonstrate reproduces both linear response excitonic effects in the absorption in excellent agreement with experiment for a wide range of materials, but also captures excitonic physics in the highly non-linear regime of ultrafast laser pumping, in particular laser fluence dependent "bleaching" (i.e. reduction) of the excitonic weight and the appearance of excitonic side bands. The approach is a procedural functional -- the Kohn-Sham and Proca equations are simultaneously time propagated -- allowing the straight-forward inclusion of, for example, lattice and spin degrees of freedom into excitonic physics.


---
# rt-TDDFT modeling of thermal emission by laser-heated glasses

## 激光加热玻璃的热发射的rt-tddft建模

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10561

**Authors:** Grigory Kolesov

arXiv:2412.10561v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: In the laser processing of glass, a ~50-1000 $\mu$m-thick layer of glass is heated to a high temperature by the laser beam. Due to the shallow depth of this hot layer, the infrared emission and absorption spectra may deviate from the black-body spectra and can be influenced by the vibrational structure of the material. Real-time time-dependent density functional theory (rt-TDDFT) modeling of the thermal radiation by such hot layers allows us to calculate the emissivity and thus to evaluate the reliability of the measurements conducted with thermal cameras at specific wavelengths.


---
# Effective Polaron Dynamics of an Impurity Particle Interacting with a Fermi Gas

## 与费米气体相互作用的杂质粒子的有效极化子动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.08028

**Authors:** Duc Viet Hoang, Peter Pickl

arXiv:2406.08028v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: We study the quantum dynamics of a homogeneous ideal Fermi gas coupled to an impurity particle on a three-dimensional box with periodic boundary condition. For large Fermi momentum $k_\text{F}$, we prove that the effective dynamics is generated by a Fr\"ohlich-type polaron Hamiltonian, which linearly couples the impurity particle to an almost-bosonic excitation field. Moreover, we prove that the effective dynamics can be approximated by an explicit coupled coherent state. Our method is applicable to a range of interaction couplings, in particular including interaction couplings of order 1 and time scales of the order $k_\text{F}^{-1}$.


---
# Band Structure Modeling of Perovskite Materials with Quantum ESPRESSO for Multijunction Photovoltaic Cell Optimization

## 用于多结光伏电池优化的具有量子浓缩咖啡的钙钛矿材料的能带结构建模

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.07760

**Authors:** Sutharsika Kumar Kalaiselvi

arXiv:2501.07760v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Increasing photovoltaic conversion efficiency, or PCE, has proven to be a critical factor in the transition to renewable energy. There exist strong interdependencies between the perovskite crystals and multijunction architectures within photovoltaic cell research. In present literature, there is a lack of intersection in investigating crystallographic geometry and compositional engineering with representation of computational modeling systems. In this paper, we propose a novel method for the rapid discovery of high-efficiency perovskite-based multijunction cells, specifically with silicon as the low band gap absorbing semiconductor material. We model the spatial geometries of potential perovskite candidates for high-efficiency cells using the Schrodinger Material Science Maestro, optimizing the periodic boundary conditions on the unit cell to minimize edge-bound errors. Band structure calculations using density functional theory become effective to approximate the PCE. After careful adjustments to the ibrav lattice parameter and parallelization, Quantum ESPRESSO was optimized for perovskite multijunction band structure calculations. Computational results on the six test-perovskite configurations demonstrate the effectiveness and superiority of our proposed representation and method, with a calculated efficiency of about 46% for one of the modeled perovskites, placing it at the top of high-efficiency perovskite-Si multijunction cells. With this method, the potential exists to bring forth a new generation of photovoltaic cells that are easily manufacturable, highly efficient, and economical.


---
# Quantum Chemical and Trajectory Surface Hopping Molecular Dynamics Study of Iodine-based BODIPY Photosensitizer

## 碘基BODIPY光敏剂的量子化学和轨迹表面跳跃分子动力学研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.10893

**Authors:** Mirza Wasif Baig, Marek Pederzoli, Mojm\'ir K\'yvala, Ji\v{r}\'i Pittner

arXiv:2411.10893v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: A computational study of I-BODIPY (2-ethyl-4,4-difluoro-6,7-diiodo-1,3-dimethyl-4-bora-3a,4a-diaza-s-indacene) was conducted to investigate its photophysical properties as a potential triplet photosensitizer for singlet oxygen generation. Multireference CASPT2 and CASSCF methods were used to calculate vertical excitation energies and spin-orbit couplings (SOCs) in a model monoiodinated BODIPY molecule to assess the applicability of the single-reference ADC(2) method.
  Time-dependent density functional theory (TD-DFT) with the Tamm-Dancoff approximation (TDA) was tested against ADC(2) using different exchange-correlation functionals, employing a two-component pseudopotential basis set for iodine. SOC magnitudes between excited states were discussed using the Slater-Condon rules. The geometry dependence of SOCs for the lowest states was also examined.
  TD-DFT/B3LYP and TD-DFT(TDA)/BHLYP were selected for subsequent absorption spectra and trajectory surface hopping (TSH) molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. Two bright states were identified in I-BODIPY's visible spectrum, showing a red shift due to iodine substitution. Excited-state MD simulations, including nonadiabatic effects and SOCs, were performed to investigate relaxation after photoexcitation to the S1 state.
  TSH MD simulations revealed that intersystem crossings occur on a similar timescale to internal conversions. After triplet population growth, a "saturation" phase was reached with a triplet-to-singlet ratio of about 4:1. The calculated triplet quantum yield of 0.85 agrees qualitatively with the experimental singlet oxygen generation yield of 0.99.


---
# Chelating-agent-free incorporation of isolated Ni single-atoms within BEA Zeolite for enhanced biomass hydrogenation

## 在BEA沸石中无螯合剂地掺入分离的Ni单原子以增强生物质加氢

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5796369/latest

Precisely tailoring metal single-atoms within zeolite scattfolds and understanding the origin of the unique behavior of such atomically dispersed catalysts are pivotal and challenge in chemistry and catalysis. Herein, we have successfully fabricated Ni single-atoms within BEA zeolite (Ni1@Beta) through a facile in situ two-step hydrothermal strategy, notably without using any chelating agent for stabilizing Ni species. With the aid of advanced characterization techniques, such as aberration-corrected high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (AC-HAADF-STEM), X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS), etc, and combined with density functional theory (DFT) calculations, the nature and micro-environment of isolated Ni species, which are incorporated within 6-membered rings and stabilized by four skeletal oxygens of Beta zeolite, have been identified. The as-obtained Ni1@Beta exhibits a superior performance in terms of activity (with a turnover frequency (TOF) value up to 114.1 h-1) and stability (for 5 consecutive runs) in the selective hydrogenation of furfural, surpassing those of Ni nanoparticle analogues and previously reported Ni-based heterogeneous catalysts. This study provides an efficient strategy for the fabrication of non-noble metal single-atoms within zeolites, which could be of great help for the design of metal-zeolite combinations in the chemoselective reactions involved in biomass conversion and beyond.

