# Quantitative Modeling of Point Defects in $\beta$-Ga2O3 Combining Hybrid Functional Energetics with Semiconductor and Processes Thermodynamics

## 将混合功能能量学与半导体和过程热力学相结合的 $ \ beta $-Ga2O3中点缺陷的定量模型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.17373

**Authors:** Khandakar Aaditta Arnab, Megan Stephens, Isaac Maxfield, Channyung Lee, Elif Ertekin, Ymir K. Frodason, Joel B. Varley, Michael A. Scarpulla

arXiv:2501.17373v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: B-gallium oxide (B-Ga2O3) is of high interest for power electronics because of its unique combination of melt growth, epitaxial growth, n-type dopability, ultrawide bandgap, and high critical field. Optimization of crystal growth processes to promote beneficial defects and suppress harmful ones requires accurate quantitative modelling of both native and impurity defects. Here we quantitatively model defect concentrations as a function of bulk crystal growth conditions and demonstrate the necessity of including effects such as bandgap temperature dependence, chemical potentials from thermochemistry, and defect vibrational entropy in modelling based on defect formation energies computed by density functional theory (DFT) with hybrid functionals. Without these contributions, grossly-erroneous and misleading predictions arise, e.g. that n-type doping attempts would be fully compensated by Ga vacancies. Including these effects reproduces the experimental facts that melt-grown Sn-doped B-Ga2O3 crystals are conductive with small compensation while annealing the same crystals in O2 at intermediate temperatures renders them insulating. To accomplish this modeling, we developed a comprehensive modelling framework (KROGER) based on calculated defect formation energies and flexible thermodynamic conditions. These capabilities allow KROGER to capture full and partial defect equilibria amongst native defects and impurities occurring during specific semiconductor growth or fabrication processes. We use KROGER to model 873 charge-states of 259 defects involving 19 elements in conditions representing bulk crystal growth by edge-fed growth (EFG) and annealing in O2. Our methodology is transferrable to a wide range of materials beyond B-Ga2O3. Integration of thermodynamic and first-principles modelling of point defects provides insight into optimization of point defect populations in growth and processing.


---
# Mechanism of Oleic Acid-Mediated Sulfur Vacancy Healing in monolayer WS$_2$

## 油酸介导的单层WS $_2 $ 硫空位愈合机制

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.17536

**Authors:** Leon Daniel, Dedi Sutarma, Osamah Kharsah, Charleen Lintz, Peter Kratzer, Marika Schleberger

arXiv:2501.17536v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We uncover the mechanism behind the enhancement of photoluminescence yield in monolayer WS$_2$ through oleic acid treatment, a promising scalable strategy for defect healing. By inducing sulfur vacancies through thermal treatment and monitoring the changes in photoluminescence yield and emission spectra, we demonstrate that oleic acid heals the sulfur vacancy by providing substitutional oxygen. Using density functional theory calculations, we provide insight into the underlying mechanism governing the oleic acid-mediated sulfur vacancy healing process. Our findings suggest that effective defect passivation by oxygen doping can be achieved through chemical treatment, opening a pathway for oxygen doping in transition metal dichalcogenides. However, we also highlight the limitations of chemical treatment, which may only lead to small increases in photoluminescence yield beyond a certain point.


---
# Revealing Symmetry-Broken Superconducting Configurations by Density Functional Theory

## 用密度泛函理论揭示对称性破缺的超导构型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00719

**Authors:** Zi-Kui Liu, Shun-Li Shang

arXiv:2404.00719v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: A coherent theory for the superconductivity of both conventional and unconventional superconductors is currently lacking. Here we show that superconductivity arises from the formation of a symmetry-broken superconducting configuration (SCC) due to atomic perturbation of the normal conducting configuration (NCC). This perturbation creates straight one-dimensional tunnels (SODTs) for charge density of electrons and/or holes as revealed by the calculations based on density functional theory (DFT). The SODTs act as resistance-free superhighways and are correlated to the Cooper pairs in the Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS) theory. The formation of SODTs implies that the electron-phonon interaction in the BCS theory can be represented by the difference in charge densities between SCC and NCC predicted by DFT. The present work highlights that in conventional superconductors, SODTs are embedded within the bulk materials and are easily destroyed by phonon vibrations, resulting in a low critical superconducting temperature (T_C). Conversely, in unconventional superconductors such as YBa2Cu3O7 (YBCO7), SODTs are protected by a layered pontoon structure with very weak bonding to the bulk materials, maintaining SODTs' stability at higher temperatures and leading to a much higher T_C. The present approach is validated for 13 conventional superconductors of 18 pure elements examined in this work, including the presently predicted superconductivity in Cu, Ag, Au, Sb, and Bi at 0 K and 0 GPa, and one unconventional superconductor of YBCO7. Our discovery indicates that DFT can be a practical tool for predicting superconductors, enabling a systematic search for new superconducting materials in the future.


---
# Structure and dynamics of electron-phonon coupled systems using neural quantum states

## 使用神经量子态的电子-声子耦合系统的结构和动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.08701

**Authors:** Ankit Mahajan, Paul J. Robinson, Joonho Lee, David R. Reichman

arXiv:2405.08701v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: In this work, we use neural quantum states (NQS) to describe the high-dimensional wave functions of electron-phonon coupled systems. We demonstrate that NQS can accurately and systematically learn the underlying physics of such problems through a variational Monte Carlo optimization of the energy with minimal incorporation of physical information even in highly challenging cases. We assess the ability of our approach across various lattice model examples featuring different types of couplings. The flexibility of our NQS formulation is demonstrated via application to ab initio models parametrized by density functional perturbation theory consisting of electron or hole bands coupled linearly to dispersive phonons. We compute accurate real-frequency spectral properties of electron-phonon systems via a novel formalism based on NQS. Our work establishes a general framework for exploring diverse ground state and dynamical phenomena arising in electron-phonon systems, including the non-perturbative interplay of correlated electronic and electron-phonon effects in systems ranging from simple lattice models to realistic models of materials parametrized by ab initio calculations.


---
# Copula methods for modeling pair densities in density functional theory

## 密度泛函理论中建模对密度的Copula方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.17515

**Authors:** Genevi\`eve Dusson, Claudia Kl\"uppelberg, Gero Friesecke

arXiv:2501.17515v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We propose a new approach towards approximating the density-to-pair-density map based on copula theory from statistics. We extend the copula theory to multi-dimensional marginals, and deduce that one can describe any (exact or approximate) pair density by the single-particle density and a copula. We present analytical formulas for the exact copula in scaling limits, numerically compute the copula for dissociating systems with two to four particles in one dimension, and propose accurate approximations of the copula between equilibrium and dissociation for two-particle systems.


---
# Revealing Symmetry-Broken Superconducting Configurations by Density Functional Theory

## 用密度泛函理论揭示对称性破缺的超导构型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00719

**Authors:** Zi-Kui Liu, Shun-Li Shang

arXiv:2404.00719v3 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: A coherent theory for the superconductivity of both conventional and unconventional superconductors is currently lacking. Here we show that superconductivity arises from the formation of a symmetry-broken superconducting configuration (SCC) due to atomic perturbation of the normal conducting configuration (NCC). This perturbation creates straight one-dimensional tunnels (SODTs) for charge density of electrons and/or holes as revealed by the calculations based on density functional theory (DFT). The SODTs act as resistance-free superhighways and are correlated to the Cooper pairs in the Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS) theory. The formation of SODTs implies that the electron-phonon interaction in the BCS theory can be represented by the difference in charge densities between SCC and NCC predicted by DFT. The present work highlights that in conventional superconductors, SODTs are embedded within the bulk materials and are easily destroyed by phonon vibrations, resulting in a low critical superconducting temperature (T_C). Conversely, in unconventional superconductors such as YBa2Cu3O7 (YBCO7), SODTs are protected by a layered pontoon structure with very weak bonding to the bulk materials, maintaining SODTs' stability at higher temperatures and leading to a much higher T_C. The present approach is validated for 13 conventional superconductors of 18 pure elements examined in this work, including the presently predicted superconductivity in Cu, Ag, Au, Sb, and Bi at 0 K and 0 GPa, and one unconventional superconductor of YBCO7. Our discovery indicates that DFT can be a practical tool for predicting superconductors, enabling a systematic search for new superconducting materials in the future.


---
# Ab initio quantum dynamics as a scalable solution to the exoplanet opacity challenge: A case study of CO$_2$ in hydrogen atmosphere

## 从头算量子动力学作为系外行星不透明度挑战的可扩展解决方案: 氢大气中CO $_2 $ 的案例研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.04439

**Authors:** Laurent Wiesenfeld, Prajwal Niraula, Julien de Wit, Nejmeddine Ja\"idane, Iouli E. Gordon, Robert J. Hargreaves

arXiv:2409.04439v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Light-matter interactions lie at the heart of our exploration of exoplanetary atmospheres. Interpreting data obtained by remote sensing is enabled by meticulous, time- and resource-consuming work aiming at deepening our understanding of such interactions (i.e., opacity models). Recently, Niraula et al. 2022 pointed out that due primarily to limitations on our modeling of broadening and far-wing behaviors, opacity models needed a timely update for exoplanet exploration in the JWST era, and thus argued for a scalable approach. In this proof-of-concept study, we introduce an end-to-end solution from \textsl{ab initio} calculations to pressure broadening, and use a perturbation framework to identify the need for precision to a level of $\sim$10\%. We focus on the CO$_2$-H$_2$ system as CO$_2$ is a key absorption feature for exoplanet research (primarily in many gas giants) at $\sim$4.3$\mu$m as pressure-broadening parameters required for interpreting such observations remain sparse. We compute elastic and inelastic cross-sections for the collision of {ortho-}H$_2$~with CO$_2$, in the ground vibrational state, and at the coupled-channel fully converged level. For scattering energies above $\sim$20~cm$^{-1}$, moderate precision inter-molecular potentials are indistinguishable from high precision ones in cross-sections. Our calculations agree with the currently available measurement within 7\%, i.e., well beyond the precision requirements.


---
# Motor or Switch? Theory Shows the Way to Obtain Elusive, Granu-lar Information about Kinetic Asymmetry Driven Systems

## 电机还是开关？理论显示了获得关于动力学不对称驱动系统的难以捉摸的、广泛的信息的方法

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-706kv-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Shrivatsa, Thulasiram

Kinetic asymmetry is crucial in chemical systems where the selective synthesis of one product over another, or the accelera-tion of specific reaction(s) is necessary. However, obtaining precise information with current experimental methods about the behavior of such systems as a function of time, substrate concentration and other relevant parameters is not possible. Computational chemistry provides a powerful means to address this problem. The current study unveils a two-pronged computational approach: (i) full quantum chemical studies with density functional theory (DFT), followed by (ii) stochastic simulations with a validated Gillespie algorithm (GA) (using representative model systems where necessary), to study the behavior of a unidirectional molecular motor (1-phenylpyrrole2,2′-dicarboxylic acid) (Nature 2022, 604 (7904), 80–85). Our approach allows us to understand what is really taking place in the system, showing that its behavior is dependent on the concentration of one of the substrates (“fuel”): when the fuel concentration is high, the rotating molecule behaves more like a switch (undesirable), but when low, it behaves primarily as a motor (desired outcome). These insights allow us to propose recipes to significantly improve the ability of the molecule to behave as a motor. They further serve to explain the efficient rotation of the very recently reported gel-embedded molecular motor (Nature 2025, 637 (8046), 594–600), and thus to also possibly provide insight into the functioning of bio-molecular motors. The current work therefore provides a template for carefully and properly studying a wide variety of important, kinetic asymmetry driven systems in the future.


---
# An overview of developments in the MRCC program system

## MRCC计划系统的发展概述

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-bdhwf?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Balázs D., Lőrincz

Mrcc is a versatile suite of quantum chemistry programs designed for accurate ab initio and density functional theory (DFT) calculations. This contribution outlines the general features and recent developments of the package. The most popular features include the open-ended coupled-cluster (CC) code, state-of-the-art CC singles and doubles with perturbative triples [CCSD(T)], second-order algebraic-diagrammatic construction, and combined wave function theory-DFT approaches. Cost-reduction techniques are implemented, such as natural orbital (NO), local NO (LNO), and natural auxiliary function approximations, which significantly decrease the computational demands of these methods. This paper also details the method developments made over the past five years, including efficient schemes to approach the complete basis set limit for CCSD(T) and the extension of our LNO-CCSD(T) method to open-shell systems. Additionally, we discuss the new approximations introduced to accelerate the self-consistent field procedure and the cost-reduction techniques elaborated for analytic gradient calculations at various levels. Furthermore, embedding techniques and novel range-separated double-hybrid functionals are presented for excited-state calculations, while the extension of the theories established to describe core excitations and ionized states is also discussed. For academic purposes, the program and its source code are available free of charge, and its commercial use is also facilitated.


---
# Vapor Phase Installation of CpCo(CO)2 in MOF-808

## CpCo(CO)2在MOF-808的气相安装

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-q762k?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Thabiso, Kunene

Metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) including MOF-808 present an opportunity for vapor phase installation of reactive centers that may serve as uniform sites for precision catalysis. The mechanism of cobalt installation in MOF-808 through atomic layer deposition (ALD) upon CpCo(CO)2 exposure is investigated through in situ FTIR spectroscopy complemented by density functional theory modeling. The role of subsequent H2O exposure in the hydrolysis of carbonyl and cyclopentadienyl ligands to complete the installation is also investigated. In situ FTIR study reveals that upon exposure of CpCo(CO)2 to MOF-808 at 115 °C, a long-lived, stable intermediate is formed that presents carbonyl stretching vibrations similar to the undissociated precursor that are attributed to chemisorbed carbonyl complexes. In MOF-808, the cobalt precursor is initially absorbed near the BTC linker, revealing the importance of non-covalent interactions in the installation process. DFT suggests that subsequent H2O exposure promotes carbonyl elimination but leaves a cyclopentadienyl-capped cobalt that is more stable than the complete hydrolysis product. The calculations are consistent with cobalt installation in MOF-808 using CpCo(CO)2 and H2O at 115 °C and further consistent with a lack of cobalt oxide ALD thin film deposition on planar supports.


---
# Microstructure-Dependent Sodium Storage Mechanisms in Hard Carbon Anodes

## 硬碳阳极中取决于微观结构的钠存储机制

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-btg3j?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Michael, Toney

Hard carbon (HC) is a leading anode material for sodium-ion batteries, but its complex microstructure complicates understanding of sodium storage mechanisms. Using X-ray total scattering and density functional theory calculations, this study clarifies how HC’s microstructural variations influence sodium storage across the slope (high potential) and plateau (low potential) regions of the potential-capacity curve. In the slope region, sodium initially adsorbs at high-binding energy defect sites and subsequently intercalates between graphene layers, adsorbing at low-binding energy defect sites, correlating with different slopes observed during initial sodiation. Initial irreversibility arises from sodium trapping at surface defects and solid electrolyte interface formation. In the plateau region, sodium simultaneously intercalates and fills pores, influenced by pore size, interlayer spacing, and defect concentration. HCs with larger pore sizes form larger sodium clusters. The proposed mechanism underscores the role of microstructure engineering in enhancing HC performance and advancing sodium-ion batteries for grid-scale energy storage.


---
# Iron-catalyzed carbene and carbene radical cascade reactions: Mechanistic study and synthetic applications

## 铁催化的卡宾和卡宾自由基级联反应: 机理研究和合成应用

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5669760/latest

Transition metal-catalyzed carbene transfer reactions are some of the most widely used methods that facilitate a range of otherwise inaccessible chemistry. However, these advantages generally promoted by precious metal catalysts, using inexpensive and less toxic iron complexes as catalysts is under development. Moreover, surprisingly little is known about the mechanistic aspects, in particular the structures of these intermediates. Herein, we report an iron-catalyzed cascade reaction of alkyne-tethered diazo compounds, offering an efficient approach for the synthesis of carbocyclic molecules with structural diversity and flexibility under mild conditions. Control experiments and density functional theory calculations unambiguously reveal two distinct reaction pathways catalyzed by either Fe(II) or Fe(III) porphyrin complexes, which involves carbene and carbene radical intermediates, respectively. The structure of the key vinyl iron carbene intermediate has been determined by X-ray diffraction. The synthetic utility has been demonstrated by gram-scale preparation and synthesis of poly-substituted arenes via a streamlined one-pot process.

