# Small hole polarons in yellow phase $\delta$-CsPbI$_3$

## 黄色相中的小孔极化子 $ \ delta $-CsPbI $_3 $

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.16695

**Authors:** Yun Liu

arXiv:2501.16695v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: A heterophase containing both the optically active $\alpha$-CsPbI$_3$ and non-active $\delta$-CsPbI$_3$ has been demonstrated as an efficient white light emitter. This has challenged the conventional perspective that non-active phases of perovskites are undesirable in any perovskite-based optoelectronic devices. To understand the role that the yellow phase $\delta$-CsPbI$_3$ plays in the light emission process, we performed a systematic computational study on its electronic and optical properties, which are relatively unexplored in the literature. Using the Fr\"ohlich model we showed that the electron and hole both exhibit moderate coupling to longitudinal optical phonons. Explicit density functional theory calculations show that small hole polarons exist with a formation energy of -96 meV, corresponding to the contraction of the Pb-I bonds within a [PbI$_6$] octahedra and wavefunction localization. Molecular dynamics simulations showed that the small hole polaron is stable against thermal disorder, and exhibit periodic localization and delocalization behavior similar to carrier hopping with a characteristic lifetime of 0.3 ps. Our results might have elucidated the role that $\delta$-CsPbI$_3$ play in the self-trapped emission in perovskite-based white light emitting diodes by supporting the presence of a localized small hole polaron.


---
# Original Ultra-hard Orthorhombic Carbon allotropes C8 with lonsdaleite-type lon topology: Crystallographic and DFT investigations

## 具有lonsdaleite型lon拓扑的原始超硬正交碳同素异形体C8: 晶体学和DFT研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.16820

**Authors:** Samir F Matar

arXiv:2501.16820v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The lon topology inherent to lonsdaleite C4 hexagonal diamond is shown to characterize three original carbon allotropes C8 in the orthorhombic system with irregular orientations of the C4 tetrahedra. The octacarbon stoichiometries were devised from crystal structure engineering and identified close to lonsdaleite from density functional theory (DFT) based calculations of ground state structures and energy derived physical properties. Characterized with high densities, the three allotropes are identified with ultra hard with hardness magnitudes close and superior to lonsdaleite. Dynamically, all three allotropes were found stable with positive frequencies revealed from their phonons band structures with specific heat CV = f(T) calculated curves close to diamond experimental values from literature.


---
# The Effect of the Non-Abelian Quantum Metric on Superfluidity

## 非阿贝里量子度量对超流的影响

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.16965

**Authors:** Kai Chen, Bishnu Karki, Pavan Hosur

arXiv:2501.16965v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The quantum geometric tensor, which encodes the full geometric information of quantum states in projective Hilbert space, plays a crucial role in condensed matter physics. In this work, we examine the effect of the non-Abelian quantum metric -- the real part of the non-Abelian quantum geometric tensor -- on the superfluid weight in time-reversal symmetric systems. For conventional $s$-wave pairing, we demonstrate that the superfluid weight includes a contribution proportional to the trace of the non-Abelian quantum metric. Notably, this contribution remains significant even when the total Chern number of a set of degenerate bands is zero and can exceed the conventional contribution, as confirmed using lattice models. Ab initio density functional theory (DFT) calculations for MoS$_2$ and TiSe$_2$ further corroborate these findings, revealing that the non-Abelian quantum metric accounts for up to 20% of the superfluid weight in MoS$_2$ and 50% in TiSe$_2$. Our results provide new insights into the nontrivial relationship between the geometric properties of quantum states and superconductivity, opening avenues for further exploration in topological and superconducting materials.


---
# Enhanced Thermoelectric Performance through Site-Specific Doping in Tetragonal Cu$_{2}$S: A First-Principles Study

## 通过四方Cu $_{2}$ S中的特定位置掺杂增强热电性能: 第一性原理研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.17034

**Authors:** Sonam Phuntsho

arXiv:2501.17034v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: This work investigates how site-specific doping can enhance the thermoelectric performance of tetragonal Cu$_{2}$S using Density functional Theory and Projected Atomic Orbital Framework for Electronic Transport. We address the gap in current research, where most doping studies focus on the high-temperature cubic polymorph, leaving the tetragonal structure underexplored. By substituting Cu with Li, Na, or Mg, as well as partially replacing S with Se or Te, we systematically examine changes in electronic structure and transport properties. Our results reveal that cation-site doping can strongly shift the Fermi level. In particular, Li doping enhances the power factor ($\sigma S^2$) by optimizing carrier concentrations and band-edge alignments, whereas Mg, due to its divalent nature, offers a higher carrier density but requires careful balancing to maintain a large Seebeck coefficient. On the anion side, substituting heavier chalcogens (Se or Te) reshapes the valence bands and subtly shifts the Fermi level, yielding moderate improvements in both electrical conductivity and Seebeck coefficient. These doping-induced alterations, captured through transport calculations, demonstrate a clear route for tailoring the interplay between conductivity and thermal transport toward potentially high figure-of-merit values. Overall, the findings highlight the importance of site specificity in doping strategies for tetragonal Cu$_{2}$S, showing that judicious choice of dopant elements and concentrations can significantly improve key thermoelectric metrics. Such insights provide a foundation for experimental validation and further development of Cu$_{2}$S-based materials for mid- to high-temperature thermoelectric applications.


---
# GPU acceleration of hybrid functional calculations in the SPARC electronic structure code

## SPARC电子结构代码中混合功能计算的GPU加速

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.16572

**Authors:** Xin Jing, Abhiraj Sharma, John E. Pask, Phanish Suryanarayana

arXiv:2501.16572v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We present a GPU-accelerated version of the real-space SPARC electronic structure code for performing hybrid functional calculations in generalized Kohn-Sham density functional theory. In particular, we develop a batch variant of the recently formulated Kronecker product-based linear solver for the simultaneous solution of multiple linear systems. We then develop a modular, math kernel based implementation for hybrid functionals on NVIDIA architectures, where computationally intensive operations are offloaded to the GPUs while the remaining workload is handled by the CPUs. Considering bulk and slab examples, we demonstrate that GPUs enable up to 8x speedup in node-hours and 80x in core-hours compared to CPU-only execution, reducing the time to solution on V100 GPUs to around 300 seconds for a metallic system with over 6,000 electrons, and significantly reducing the computational resources required for a given wall time.


---
# Excited State Absorption: Reference Oscillator Strengths, Wavefunction and TD-DFT Benchmarks

## 激发态吸收: 参考振荡器强度、波函数和td-dft基准

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.17114

**Authors:** Jakub \v{S}ir\r{u}\v{c}ek, Boris Le Guennic, Yann Damour, Pierre-Fran\c{c}ois Loos, Denis Jacquemin

arXiv:2501.17114v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Excited-state absorption (ESA) corresponds to the transition between two electronic excited states and is a fundamental process for probing and understanding light-matter interactions. Accurate modeling of ESA is indeed often required to interpret time-resolved experiments. In this contribution, we present a dataset of 53 ESA oscillator strengths in three different gauges and the associated vertical transition energies between 71 excited states of 23 small- and medium-sized molecules from the QUEST database. The reference values were obtained within the quadratic-response (QR) CC3 formalism using eight different Dunning basis sets. We found that the d-aug-cc-pVTZ basis set is always adequate while its more compact double-$\zeta$ counterpart, d-aug-cc-pVDZ, performs well in most applications. These QR-CC3 data allow us to assess the performance of QR-TDDFT, with and without applying the Tamm-Dancoff approximation, using a panel of global and range-separated hybrids (B3LYP, BH{\&}HLYP, CAM-B3LYP, LC-BLYP33, and LC-BLYP47), as well as several lower-order wavefunction methods, i.e., QR-CCSD, QR-CC2, EOM-CCSD, ISR-ADC(2), and ISR-ADC(3). We show that QR-TDDFT delivers acceptable errors for ESA oscillator strengths, with CAM-B3LYP showing particular promise, especially for the largest molecules of our set. We also find that ISR-ADC(3) exhibits excellent performance


---
# Why Charge Added Using Transition Metals To Some Insulators -- Including LK-99 -- Localizes and Does Not Yield a Metal

## 为什么使用过渡金属向某些绝缘体 (包括LK-99) 添加的电荷会局部化并且不会产生金属

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.07295

**Authors:** Alexandru B. Georgescu

arXiv:2308.07295v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: While adding charge to semiconductors via dopants is a well-established method for tuning electronic properties, we demonstrate that introducing transition metal impurities into certain insulators can lead to localized charge, assisted by a Jahn-Teller distortion. This leads to isolated charge, and an insulating material as opposed to emergent states - including superconductivity. We focus on Cu impurities added to Pb$_{10}$(PO$_4$)$_6$O ('LK-99'), replacing 10% of Cu ions, as discussed in recent literature. Our calculations show that the material remains a wide bandgap insulator with isolated, S=1/2 localized charges on the Cu ions-similar to color centers-even within standard DFT, without the need for electron correlation corrections to the Cu d-orbitals. Superconductivity is excluded by known mechanisms that require the material to be metallic. We resolve previously observed inconsistencies between density functional theory results and experimental findings related to doping site energetics, crystal structure, and transparency. We find that Cu doping either Pb site leads to CuO$_4$ coordination and a similar unit cell volume contraction. Engineering materials with dopant sites that have different local symmetries can induce non-relativistic spin splitting-often referred to as altermagnetism. However, in the case of localized charges, this may enable spins to be individually controlled.


---
# Many-body perturbation theory with hybrid density functional theory starting points accelerated by adaptively compressed exchange

## 通过自适应压缩交换加速的具有混合密度泛函理论起点的多体摄动理论

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.14662

**Authors:** Victor Wen-zhe Yu, Marco Govoni

arXiv:2409.14662v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We report on the use of the adaptively compressed exchange (ACE) operator to accelerate many-body perturbation theory (MBPT) calculations, including G$_0$W$_0$ and the Bethe Salpeter equation (BSE), for hybrid density functional theory starting points. We show that by approximating the exact exchange operator with the low-rank ACE operator, substantial computational savings can be achieved with systematically controllable errors in the quasiparticle energies computed with full-frequency G$_0$W$_0$ and the optical absorption spectra and vertical excitation energies computed by solving the BSE within density matrix perturbation theory. Our implementation makes use of the ACE-accelerated electronic Hamiltonian to carry out both G$_0$W$_0$ and BSE without explicitly computing empty states. We show the robustness of the approach and present the computational gains obtained on both the central processing unit and graphics processing unit nodes. Our work will facilitate the exploration and evaluation of fine-tuned hybrid starting points aimed at enhancing the accuracy of MBPT calculations without involving computationally demanding self-consistency in Hedin's equations.


---
# GPU acceleration of hybrid functional calculations in the SPARC electronic structure code

## SPARC电子结构代码中混合功能计算的GPU加速

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.16572

**Authors:** Xin Jing, Abhiraj Sharma, John E. Pask, Phanish Suryanarayana

arXiv:2501.16572v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We present a GPU-accelerated version of the real-space SPARC electronic structure code for performing hybrid functional calculations in generalized Kohn-Sham density functional theory. In particular, we develop a batch variant of the recently formulated Kronecker product-based linear solver for the simultaneous solution of multiple linear systems. We then develop a modular, math kernel based implementation for hybrid functionals on NVIDIA architectures, where computationally intensive operations are offloaded to the GPUs while the remaining workload is handled by the CPUs. Considering bulk and slab examples, we demonstrate that GPUs enable up to 8x speedup in node-hours and 80x in core-hours compared to CPU-only execution, reducing the time to solution on V100 GPUs to around 300 seconds for a metallic system with over 6,000 electrons, and significantly reducing the computational resources required for a given wall time.


---
# Excited State Absorption: Reference Oscillator Strengths, Wavefunction and TD-DFT Benchmarks

## 激发态吸收: 参考振荡器强度、波函数和td-dft基准

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.17114

**Authors:** Jakub \v{S}ir\r{u}\v{c}ek, Boris Le Guennic, Yann Damour, Pierre-Fran\c{c}ois Loos, Denis Jacquemin

arXiv:2501.17114v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Excited-state absorption (ESA) corresponds to the transition between two electronic excited states and is a fundamental process for probing and understanding light-matter interactions. Accurate modeling of ESA is indeed often required to interpret time-resolved experiments. In this contribution, we present a dataset of 53 ESA oscillator strengths in three different gauges and the associated vertical transition energies between 71 excited states of 23 small- and medium-sized molecules from the QUEST database. The reference values were obtained within the quadratic-response (QR) CC3 formalism using eight different Dunning basis sets. We found that the d-aug-cc-pVTZ basis set is always adequate while its more compact double-$\zeta$ counterpart, d-aug-cc-pVDZ, performs well in most applications. These QR-CC3 data allow us to assess the performance of QR-TDDFT, with and without applying the Tamm-Dancoff approximation, using a panel of global and range-separated hybrids (B3LYP, BH{\&}HLYP, CAM-B3LYP, LC-BLYP33, and LC-BLYP47), as well as several lower-order wavefunction methods, i.e., QR-CCSD, QR-CC2, EOM-CCSD, ISR-ADC(2), and ISR-ADC(3). We show that QR-TDDFT delivers acceptable errors for ESA oscillator strengths, with CAM-B3LYP showing particular promise, especially for the largest molecules of our set. We also find that ISR-ADC(3) exhibits excellent performance

