# A New Type of MPd5 Kagome Superconductors

## 一种新型MPd5 Kagome超导体

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.15445

**Authors:** Dan Li, Zhengxuan Wang, Panshi Jing, Mehrdad Shiri, Kun Wang, Chunlan Ma, Shijing Gong, Chuanxi Zhao, Tianxing Wang, Xiao Dong, Lin Zhuang, Wuming Liu, Yipeng An

arXiv:2502.15445v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Kagome materials, which are composed of hexagons tiled with a shared triangle, have inspired enormous interest due to their unique structures and rich physical properties, but exploring superconducting material systems with new kagome structures is still an important research direction. Here, we predict a new type of kagome superconductors, MPd5 (M is a group IIA metal element), and identify that they exhibit coexistence of superconductivity and non-trivial topological properties. We uncover their phonon-mediated superconductivity by the density functional theory for superconductors (SCDFT), predicting the superconducting transition temperatures (Tc) of 2.64, 2.03, and 1.50 K for CaPd5, SrPd5, and BaPd5, respectively, which can be effectively tuned by external pressure and electron doping. The present results also demonstrate that MPd5 have various topological properties such as, CaPd5 shows topological non-trivial intersection near the Fermi level (EF). Our results indicate that the MPd5 materials can be an emerging material platform with rich exotic physics in their kagome structures, and render themselves excellent candidates for superconducting and advanced functional materials that could be utilized in topological quantum computing and information technology.


---
# Interaction of dopants with the I$_3$-type basal stacking fault in hexagonal-diamond Si

## 掺杂剂与六方金刚石硅中I $_3 $ 型基础堆垛层错的相互作用

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.15531

**Authors:** Marc T\'unica, Perpetua Wanjiru Muchiri, Alberto Zobelli, Anna Marzegalli, Emilio Scalise, Michele Amato

arXiv:2502.15531v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Recently synthesized hexagonal-diamond silicon, germanium, and silicon-germanium nanowires exhibit remarkable optical and electronic properties when compared to cubic-diamond polytypes. Because of the metastability of the hexagonal-diamond phase, I$_3$-type basal stacking faults are frequently observed in these materials. In the present study, we employ density functional theory calculations to investigate the interaction of extrinsic dopants (group III, IV, and V elements) with the I$_3$-type basal stacking fault in hexagonal-diamond silicon. Contrary to the behavior observed in cubic-diamond silicon with intrinsic stacking faults, we demonstrate that neutral and negatively charged $p$-type impurities exhibit a marked tendency to occupy lattice sites far from the I$_3$-type basal stacking fault. The interaction of acceptors with the planar defect reduces their energetic stability. However, this effect is much less pronounced for neutral or positively charged $n$-type dopants and isovalent impurities. The thermodynamic energy barrier to segregation for these dopants is small and may even become negative, indicating a tendency to segregate into the fault. Through a detailed analysis of structural modifications, ionization effects, and impurity-level charge density distribution, we show that the origin of this behavior can be attributed to variations in the impurity's steric effects and its wave function character. Finally, all these results are validated by considering the extreme case of an abrupt hexagonal/cubic silicon interface, where acceptor segregation from the cubic to the hexagonal region is demonstrated, confirming the behavior observed for $p$-type dopants near to the I$_3$-type defect.


---
# Formation mechanism, stability and role of zinc and sulfur vacancies on the electronic properties and optical response of ZnS

## 锌硫空位的形成机理、稳定性及对ZnS电子性质和光学响应的影响

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.15670

**Authors:** P. R. A de Oliveira, L. Lima, G. Felix, P. Venezuela, F. Stavale

arXiv:2502.15670v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Combining experimental and theoretical tools, we report that Zn vacanciesplay an important role in the electronic and optical responses of ZnS sphalerite. The defective surface of ZnS (001) single crystal prepared in ultra-highvacuum conditions, has been shown to exhibit a semiconducting character instead of the insulating properties of the pristine structure, as revealed by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). Interestingly, this effect is attributed to the formation of zinc vacancies in the ZnS system, which also alter the optical response of the material, as supported by photoluminescence (PL) measurements comparing pristine and S-rich (Zn-poor) ZnS. To address these findings from a theoretical point of view, first principles calculations based on density functional theory (DFT) were performed. The optical properties of cation-defective ZnS were evaluated using random-phase approximation and hybrid functional DFT calculations. These calculations revealed absorption peaks in the visible range in the defective ZnS rather than solely in the ultra-violet range obtained for defect-free ZnS. The combination of this finding with joint density of states (JDOS) analysis explains the emergence of new luminescence peaks observed in the PL spectra of cation-defective ZnS. These findings highlight the role of Zn vacancies in tuning ZnS optical properties, making it a potential candidate for optoelectronic applications such as LEDs and photodetectors.


---
# Revealing Symmetry-Broken Superconducting Configurations by Density Functional Theory

## 用密度泛函理论揭示对称性破缺的超导构型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00719

**Authors:** Zi-Kui Liu, Shun-Li Shang

arXiv:2404.00719v5 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: A coherent theory for the superconductivity of both conventional and unconventional superconductors is currently lacking. Here we show that superconductivity arises from the formation of a symmetry-broken superconducting configuration (SCC) due to atomic perturbation of the normal conducting configuration (NCC). This perturbation creates straight one-dimensional tunnels (SODTs) for charge density of electrons and/or holes as revealed by the calculations based on density functional theory (DFT). The SODTs act as resistance-free superhighways and are correlated to the Cooper pairs in the Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS) theory. The formation of SODTs implies that the electron-phonon interaction in the BCS theory can be represented by the difference in charge densities between SCC and NCC predicted by DFT. The present work highlights that in conventional superconductors, SODTs are embedded within the bulk materials and are easily destroyed by phonon vibrations, resulting in a low critical superconducting temperature (T_C). Conversely, in unconventional superconductors such as YBa2Cu3O7 (YBCO7), SODTs are protected by a layered pontoon structure with very weak bonding to the bulk materials, maintaining SODTs' stability at higher temperatures and leading to a much higher T_C. The present approach is validated for 13 conventional superconductors of 18 pure elements examined in this work, including the presently predicted superconductivity in Cu, Ag, Au, Sb, and Bi at 0 K and 0 GPa, and one unconventional superconductor of YBCO7. Our discovery indicates that DFT can be a practical tool for predicting superconductors, enabling a systematic search for new superconducting materials in the future.


---
# Quantum effects in surface diffusion: application to diffusion of nitrogen adatoms over GaN(0001) surface

## 表面扩散中的量子效应: 在GaN(0001) 表面上氮原子扩散中的应用

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.19079

**Authors:** Pawe{\l} Strak, Cyprian Sobczak, Stanislaw Krukowski

arXiv:2501.19079v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: It is shown that quantum effects play determining role in nitrogen adatom diffusion due to several different factors. This could be related to the change of the energy of the quantum states and also due to the redistribution of electrons between the quantum states, both full and resonant, via quantum statistics partially governed by the Fermi energy level. These effects were studied in the case of nitrogen diffusion over clean and gallium covered Ga-terminated GaN(0001) surface. For the fractional coverage the density functional theory (DFT) calculations show that at the saddle point configuration the redistribution of electrons between different quantum states may affect the surface diffusion barrier significantly. The other quantum influence occurs via the change of the minimal energy configuration. Under fractional Ga coverage of GaN(0001) surface the nitrogen diffusion energy barrier proceeds from the resonant states governed energy minimal H3 site across the saddle point in the bridge configuration. At this path the barrier is affected the electron redistribution between surface quantum states both in the initial and the saddle point. In the case of the full GaN coverage the diffusion path is from on-top N adatom configuration via H3 site that corresponds to maximal energy. Therefore the diffusion barrier is Ebar= 1.18 eV for clean and Ebar= 0.92 eV for (1/6) ML to finally Ebar= 1.23 eV for full Ga coverage. Thus the overall barrier is reduced to Ebar= 0.92 eV due to quantum statistics effects. The identified stable N on-top configuration for the full coverage is essential for atomic mechanism of GaN growth in Ga-rich regime.


---
# A unified framework of unitarily residual measures for quantifying dissipation

## 用于量化耗散的统一残差度量的统一框架

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02231

**Authors:** Tomohiro Nishiyama, Yoshihiko Hasegawa

arXiv:2412.02231v3 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Open quantum systems are governed by both unitary and non-unitary dynamics, with dissipation arising from the latter. Traditional quantum divergence measures, such as quantum relative entropy, fail to account for the non-unitary oriented dissipation as the divergence is positive even between unitarily connected states. We introduce a framework for quantifying the dissipation by isolating the non-unitary components of quantum dynamics. We define equivalence relations among hermitian operators through unitary transformations and characterize the resulting quotient set. By establishing an isomorphism between this quotient set and a set of real vectors with ordered components, we induce divergence measures that are invariant under unitary evolution, which we refer to as the unitarily residual measures. These unitarily residual measures inherit properties such as monotonicity and convexity and, in certain cases, correspond to classical information divergences between sorted eigenvalue distributions. Our results provide a powerful tool for quantifying dissipation in open quantum systems, advancing the understanding of quantum thermodynamics.


---
# Revealing Symmetry-Broken Superconducting Configurations by Density Functional Theory

## 用密度泛函理论揭示对称性破缺的超导构型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00719

**Authors:** Zi-Kui Liu, Shun-Li Shang

arXiv:2404.00719v5 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: A coherent theory for the superconductivity of both conventional and unconventional superconductors is currently lacking. Here we show that superconductivity arises from the formation of a symmetry-broken superconducting configuration (SCC) due to atomic perturbation of the normal conducting configuration (NCC). This perturbation creates straight one-dimensional tunnels (SODTs) for charge density of electrons and/or holes as revealed by the calculations based on density functional theory (DFT). The SODTs act as resistance-free superhighways and are correlated to the Cooper pairs in the Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS) theory. The formation of SODTs implies that the electron-phonon interaction in the BCS theory can be represented by the difference in charge densities between SCC and NCC predicted by DFT. The present work highlights that in conventional superconductors, SODTs are embedded within the bulk materials and are easily destroyed by phonon vibrations, resulting in a low critical superconducting temperature (T_C). Conversely, in unconventional superconductors such as YBa2Cu3O7 (YBCO7), SODTs are protected by a layered pontoon structure with very weak bonding to the bulk materials, maintaining SODTs' stability at higher temperatures and leading to a much higher T_C. The present approach is validated for 13 conventional superconductors of 18 pure elements examined in this work, including the presently predicted superconductivity in Cu, Ag, Au, Sb, and Bi at 0 K and 0 GPa, and one unconventional superconductor of YBCO7. Our discovery indicates that DFT can be a practical tool for predicting superconductors, enabling a systematic search for new superconducting materials in the future.


---
# Physicochemical properties of tire-derived para-phenylenediamine quinones - A comparison of experimental and computational approaches

## 轮胎衍生的对苯二胺醌的理化性质-实验和计算方法的比较

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-q5xk3?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Erik, Krogh

Para-phenylenediamine (PPD) compounds are added to tire rubber at percent levels to sacrificially react with oxidants for prolonged service life. Recently, the PPD transformation product N-(1,3-dimethylbutyl)-N’-phenyl-p-phenylenediamine quinone (6PPDQ) has been identified in roadway runoff as a potent toxicant for coho salmon (Oncorhynchus kisutch). As 6PPD may be phased out in favour of alternative PPDs, understanding the physicochemical properties of their corresponding quinones is important for predicting their environmental fate, distribution, and toxicity. Here, we present experimentally determined water solubility values for 6PPDQ and five structural analogues and find them to be several orders of magnitude lower than those predicted by EPI Suite, a popular Quantitative Structure Activity Relationship (QSAR) program. We also report octanol-water and air-water partition coefficients for PPDQs using Density Functional Theory (DFT) and QSAR approaches. Both methods provided similar rank ordering of compounds. However, DFT methods tended to underestimate log Kow values and overestimate log Kaw values relative to EPI Suite. We discuss the strengths and limitations of both computational approaches, the need for more experimentally derived values, and caution researchers interpreting predicted physicochemical properties, particularly for emerging contaminants for which QSARs may be poorly parameterized.


---
# Antiparallel to Parallel β-Sheet Transition of Amyloid-β is Promoted by the Ability to Incor-porate into Membranes

## 通过进入膜的能力促进了淀粉样 β 的反平行到平行的 β 折叠转变

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-x204f?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Ronja Rabea, Paschke

Alzheimer's disease is closely associated with the misfolding of amyloid-β (Aβ) peptides towards β-sheet-rich fibrils. Increasing evidence suggests that early-stage Aβ oligomers formed along the misfolding trajectory exert neurodegenerative effects by interfering with neuronal membranes eventually leading to cellular dysfunction. However, the mechanism and factors influencing these early events – particularly how the lipid membrane modulates the structural polymorphism of Aβ – remain debated. Herein, we use the enhanced plasmonic detection of surface-enhanced infrared absorption (SEIRA) spectroscopy to ask the question whether interfacial or transmembrane interactions alter the early stages of Aβ misfolding. Focusing on Aβ’s amide bands, we track the secondary structural changes when Aβ interacts with tethered bilayer lipid membranes (tBLMs) that either permit or prevent transmembrane incorporation, and quantify β-sheet fractions and orientations by comparison to computed spectra from density functional theory (DFT). We find that the incorporation of Aβ into membranes promotes the transition from antiparallel to parallel β-sheets, which are formed suddenly after a lag period indicating a cooperative process. The latter appears to be accelerated by negatively charged lipids, which are often discussed as a misfolding catalyst. Our results strengthen the proposals that misfolding involves the formation of ion channel/pore-like oligomeric structures.

