# Observation of the Two-Photon Landau-Zener-Stückelberg-Majorana Effect

## 双光子landau-zener-stückelberg-majorana效应的观察

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevLett.134.060602

**Authors:** Isak Björkman, Marko Kuzmanović, and Gheorghe Sorin Paraoanu

Author(s): Isak Björkman, Marko Kuzmanović, and Gheorghe Sorin Paraoanu<br /><p>Harnessing second-order processes enables new control schemes in quantum dynamics. We show that the Landau-Zener-Stückelberg-Majorana (LZSM) transition can be generalized to a virtual-state process in a three-level system, employing a phase modulated drive whereby two photons excite the system from …</p><br />[Phys. Rev. Lett. 134, 060602] Published Fri Feb 14, 2025


---
# Absorbing state transitions with discrete symmetries

## 具有离散对称性的吸收状态转换

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.08702

**Authors:** Hyunsoo Ha, David A. Huse, Rhine Samajdar

arXiv:2502.08702v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Recent progress in interactive quantum dynamics has inspired the study of fundamentally out-of-equilibrium dynamical phase transitions of quantum and classical many-body systems. Motivated by these developments, we study nonequilibrium phase transitions to absorbing states in one-dimensional systems that can model certain quantum circuits. Specifically, we consider dynamics for which the absorbing states are not unique due to a discrete symmetry: Z2 for two-state models and S3 or Z3 for three-state models. Under time evolution, domain walls in these models perform random walks and coarsen under local feedback, which, if perfect, reduces their number over time, driving the system to an absorbing state in polynomial time. Imperfect feedback, however, introduces domain wall multiplication (branching), potentially leading to an active phase. For Z2-symmetric two-state models, starting from a single domain wall, we find distinct absorbing and active phases as in previous studies. Extending this analysis to local three-state models shows that any nonzero branching rate drives the system into the active phase. However, we demonstrate that incorporating nonlocal classical information into the feedback can stabilize the absorbing phase against branching. By tuning the level of nonlocality, we observe a transition from the active to the absorbing phase, which belongs to a new universality class.


---
# Tuning electrochemical properties and thermal stability of YSZ mesoporous thin films for SOFC applications

## 用于SOFC的YSZ介孔薄膜的电化学性能和热稳定性的调节

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.08750

**Authors:** Bernardo Sievers, Leticia Granja, Andr\'es Zelcer, Dilson Juan, Valeria Ferrari, Sebasti\'an Passanante, Ver\'onica Lombardo, Mar\'ia Cecilia Fuertes, Rodolfo Oscar Fuentes, Joaqu\'in Sacanell

arXiv:2502.08750v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Dense and mesoporous 4% mol Yttria-stabilized zirconia thin films were deposited on amorphous silica substrates. The effects of the temperature on the mesostructure were analyzed, by applying different thermal treatments to the samples within the range of SOFC operation conditions. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy measurements rendered evidence of a single mechanism, consistent with grain boundary/surface oxide ion conduction. Our results show that the presence of the highly accessible porosity improves the superficial ionic conductivity, reducing the activation energy of the overall process. Density functional theory calculations on the (110) surface were performed to estimate the associated energy barriers. Our results suggest that ionic transport along the surface of accessible pores connected to the atmosphere could account for the observed reduction in activation energy.


---
# Modelling spin-orbitronics effects at interfaces and chiral molecules

## 模拟界面和手性分子的自旋-orbitronics效应

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.09239

**Authors:** Poonam Kumari, Cyrille Barreteau, Alexander Smogunov

arXiv:2502.09239v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Using orbital angular momentum (OAM) currents in nanoelectronics, for example, for magnetization manipulation via spin-orbit torque (SOT), represents a growing field known as "spin-orbitronics". Here, using the density functional theory (DFT) and the real-time dynamics of electronic wave packets, we explore a possibility of generation and propagation of orbital currents in two representative systems: an oxidized Cu surface (where large OAMs are known to form at the Cu/O interface) and a model molecular junction made of two carbon chains connected by a chiral molecule. In the Cu/O system, the orbital polarization of an incident wave packet from the Cu lead is strongly enhanced at the Cu/O interface but then rapidly decays in the bulk Cu due to orbital quenching of asymptotic bulk states. Interestingly, if a finite transmission across the oxygen layer is allowed (in a tunnel junction geometry, for example), a significant spin-polarization of transmitted (or reflected) currents is instead predicted which persists at a much longer distance and can be further tuned by an applied in-plane voltage. For the molecular junction, the mixing of the carbon $p_x$ and $p_y$ (degenerate) channels by the chiral molecular orbital gives rise not only to an efficient generation of orbital current but also to its long-range propagation along the carbon chain.


---
# Time-translation invariance symmetry breaking hidden by finite-scale singularities

## 有限尺度奇点隐藏的时间平移不变性对称性破坏

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11619

**Authors:** Ixandra Achitouv, Vincent Lahoche, Dine Ousmane Samary, Parham Radpay

arXiv:2412.11619v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: In this paper, we consider a renormalization group perspective on the quantum dynamics of a particle moving in the Euclidean $\mathbb{R}^N$ space through the complex landscape provided by a disordered Hamiltonian of type $2+p$. We focus on the large $N$ limit, where the coarse-graining procedure is unconventional: it is based on the Wigner spectrum of the rank-2 disorder. The main consequence of this choice is that canonical dimensions depend on the scale, and the flow equations fail to become autonomous, preventing the existence of global fixed points. One of the main features of the underlying renormalization group flow is the existence of finite-scale singularities for initial conditions sufficiently close to the Gaussian region and for rank-$p$ disorder intensity large enough. Using the Luttinger-Ward formalism, we show that these finite-scale singularities hide (and should be resolved by) a phase transition that breaks time-translation invariance.


---
# Sulfur in diamond and its effect on the creation of nitrogen-vacancy defect from \textit{ab initio} simulations

## \ textit{ab initio} 模拟金刚石中的硫及其对氮空位缺陷产生的影响

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16310

**Authors:** Nima Ghafari Cherati, Anton Pershin, \'Ad\'am Gali

arXiv:2412.16310v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: The negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center is one of the most significant and widely studied defects in diamond that plays a prominent role in quantum technologies. The precise engineering of the location and concentration of NV centers is of great importance in quantum technology applications. To this end, irradiation techniques such as nitrogen-molecule ion implantation are applied. Recent studies have reported enhanced NV center creation and activation efficiencies introduced by nitrogen molecule ion implantation in doped diamond layers, where the maximum creation efficiency at $\sim75$\% has been achieved in sulfur-doped layers. However, the microscopic mechanisms behind these observations and the limits of the efficiencies are far from understood. In this study, we employ hybrid density functional theory calculations to compute the formation energies, charge transition levels, and the magneto-optical properties of various sulfur defects in diamond where we also consider the interaction of sulfur and hydrogen in chemical vapor-deposited diamond layers. Our results imply that the competition between the donor substitutional sulfur and the hyper-deep acceptor sulfur-vacancy complex is an important limiting factor on the creation efficiency of the NV center in diamond. However, both species are able to trap interstitial hydrogen from diamond, which favorably mediates the creation of NV centers in chemical vapor-deposited diamond layers.


---
# A Guide to Molecular Properties from the Bethe-Salpeter Equation

## 从Bethe-Salpeter方程看分子性质

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.08753

**Authors:** Christof Holzer, Yannick J. Franzke

arXiv:2502.08753v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The Bethe-Salpeter equation (BSE) combined with the Green's function GW method has successfully transformed into a robust computational tool to describe light-matter interactions and excitation spectra for molecules, solids, and materials from first principles. Thanks to its ability to accurately describe charge-transfer and Rydberg excitations, the GW-BSE already forms an established and cost-efficient alternative to time-dependent density functional theory. This raises the question whether the GW-BSE approach can become a more general framework for molecular properties beyond excitation energies. In this mini-review, we recapitulate recent endeavors along this point in terms of both theoretical and practical developments for quantum chemistry, physical chemistry, and related fields. In doing so, we provide guidelines for current applications to chemical challenges in collaboration with experimentalists as well as to future developments to extended the GW-BSE toolkit.


---
# FAST AND FLEXIBLE 3D MOLECULE DESIGN FRAMEWORK FOR NOVEL ORGANIC OPTOELECTRONIC MATERIALS

## 新型有机光电材料快速灵活的三维分子设计框架

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-kwdbd?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Zhifeng , Gao

Organic optoelectronic materials (OOMs) are pivotal for advancing technologies such as organic photovoltaics and light-emitting diodes. Traditional methods for discovering new OOMs are inefficient and limited by chemical space exploration. We introduce O2-GEN, a novel framework leveraging a 3D pretraining backbone trained on a diverse dataset of over ten million molecules, enabling comprehensive exploration of chemical space. O2-GEN excels in generating fused-ring systems and conjugated fragment assemblies, achieving nearly 100% validity and novelty. It significantly outperforms existing models in speed and chemical structural validity, particularly for larger molecules. The framework supports both global and local generation modes, allowing for the creation of new molecules or modifications of existing structures. Additionally, O2-GEN integrates a property selector finetuned with density functional theory data, enabling precise multi-property screening. This framework offers a powerful tool for rational design and high-throughput screening of OOMs, with potential applications to drug discovery and energy materials.

