# Transient Raman observation and bond properties of a mixed dihalide radical anion in water

## 水中混合二卤自由基阴离子的瞬态拉曼观察和键性质

Link: https://pubs.aip.org/aip/jcp/article/162/7/074303/3336111/Transient-Raman-observation-and-bond-properties-of

<span class="paragraphSection">An elusive short-lived mixed dihalide radical anion (BrCl<sup>·−</sup>), produced in water by radiation-induced reactions, has been observed and analyzed by time-resolved resonance Raman spectroscopy (TRRR) and density functional theory. The Raman spectrum of the radical consists of a prominently enhanced stretching vibration, represented by a band at 212 cm<sup>−1</sup> and its overtones. Calculations by range-separated hybrid density functionals (ωB97x and LC-ωPBE) reproduce the experimental vibrational frequency well, with a corresponding bond length of 2.713 (±0.028) Å. A first order anharmonicity of ∼1.42 cm<sup>−1</sup> determined for the Br–Cl stretching mode in the radical suggests a convergence of vibrational states at an energy of ∼1.01 eV, using the Birge–Sponer extrapolation. This value, estimated for the radical confined in the solvent cage, compares fairly well with the calculated gas-phase energy, 1.06 eV, required for the radical to dissociate into Br<sup>·</sup> and Cl<sup>−</sup> fragments. The Raman detection of a closely related radical, ICl<sup>·−</sup>, in water was unsuccessful. The reaction pathways and equilibria have been analyzed to discuss the observability of mixed dihalide and analogous radical species.</span>


---
# Predictions of high-temperature superconducting ternary hydrides under high pressure using density functional calculations

## 使用密度泛函计算预测高压下的高温超导三元氢化物

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.111.054517

**Authors:** Bangshuai Zhu, Dexi Shao, Cuiying Pei, Qi Wang, Juefei Wu, and Yanpeng Qi

Author(s): Bangshuai Zhu, Dexi Shao, Cuiying Pei, Qi Wang, Juefei Wu, and Yanpeng Qi<br /><p>The abundant chemical compositions in ternary hydrides bring much more possibility to explore high-temperature superconductors under lower pressure. Here we constructed 115 ternary hydrides on the basis of the element substitution using 16 metal elements within five reported prototype structures. We…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 111, 054517] Published Tue Feb 18, 2025


---
# Lindblad quantum dynamics from correlation functions of classical spin chains

## 从经典自旋链的相关函数获得Lindblad量子动力学

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.111.064420

**Authors:** Markus Kraft, Mariel Kempa, Jiaozi Wang, and Robin Steinigeweg

Author(s): Markus Kraft, Mariel Kempa, Jiaozi Wang, and Robin Steinigeweg<br /><p>The Lindblad quantum master equation is one of the central approaches to the physics of open quantum systems. In particular, boundary driving enables the study of transport, where a steady state emerges in the long-time limit, which features a constant current and a characteristic density profile. W…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 111, 064420] Published Tue Feb 18, 2025


---
# Making sense of negative probabilities: An exact representation of the dynamics of quantum spin chains as classical stochastic processes with particle/antiparticle pairs

## 理解负概率: 量子自旋链动力学的精确表示为具有粒子/反粒子对的经典随机过程

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.10502

**Authors:** Tony Jin

arXiv:2502.10502v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Since the advent of quantum mechanics, classical probability interpretations have faced significant challenges. A notable issue arises with the emergence of negative probabilities when attempting to define the joint probability of non-commutative observables. In this work, we propose a resolution to this dilemma by introducing an exact representation of the dynamics of quantum spin chains using classical continuous-time Markov chains (CTMCs). These CTMCs effectively model the creation, annihilation, and propagation of pairs of classical particles and antiparticles. The quantum dynamics then emerges by averaging over various realizations of this classical process.


---
# Exceptionally High Nonlinear Optical Response in Two-dimensional Type II Dirac Semimetal Nickel di-Telluride (NiTe2)

## 二维II型狄拉克半金属镍二碲化物 (NiTe2) 中异常高的非线性光学响应

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.10781

**Authors:** Saswata Goswami, Caique Campos de Oliveira, Bruno Ipaves, Preeti Lata Mahapatra, Varinder Pal, Suman Sarkar, Pedro A. S. Autreto, Samit K. Ray, Chandra Sekhar Tiwary

arXiv:2502.10781v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Nickel ditelluride (NiTe2) is a newly identified Type-II Dirac semimetal, showing novel characteristics in electronic transport and optical experiments. In this study, we explored the nonlinear optical properties of two-dimensional NiTe2 using experimental and computational techniques (density functional theory-based approach). Few layered two-dimensional NiTe2 (2D-NiTe2) are synthesized using liquid phase exfoliation (LPE), which is characterized using X-ray diffraction technique, transmission electron, and atomic force microscopy. The nonlinear refractive index and third-order nonlinear susceptibility of the prepared 2D-NiTe2 are determined from the self-induced diffraction pattern generated using different wavelengths ( 405, 532, and 650 nm) in the far field. In addition, the diffraction pattern generated by spatial self-phase modulation (SSPM) is further verified by varying concentration (2D-NiTe2 in the IPA solvent), wavelength (of incoming laser beams), and cuvette width (active path length). The high value of third-order nonlinear susceptibility (in order of 10-9 e.s.u.) determined using SSPM in the 2D-NiTe2 can be attributed to the laser-induced hole coherence effect. Lastly, utilizing the reverse saturable absorption property of 2D-hBN, asymmetric light propagation is also demonstrated in the 2D-NiTe2/2D-hBN heterostructure.


---
# Valency, charge-transfer, and orbital-dependent correlation in bilayer nickelates Nd3Ni2O7

## 双层镍酸盐Nd3Ni2O7中的化合价，电荷转移和轨道相关

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.11327

**Authors:** Daisuke Takegami, Takaki Okauchi, Edgar Abarca Morales, Kouto Fujinuma, Mizuki Furo, Masato Yoshimura, Ku-Ding Tsuei, Grace A. Pan, Dan Ferenc Segedin, Qi Song, Hanjong Paik, Charles M. Brooks, Julia A. Mundy, Takashi Mizokawa, Liu Hao Tjeng, Berit H. Goodge, Atsushi Hariki

arXiv:2502.11327v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We examine the bulk electronic structure of Nd3Ni2O7 using Ni 2p core-level hard x-ray photoemission spectroscopy combined with density functional theory + dynamical mean-field theory. Our results reveal a large deviation of the Ni 3d occupation from the formal Ni2.5+ valency, highlighting the importance of the charge-transfer from oxygen ligands. We find that the dominant d8 configuration is accompanied by nearly equal contributions from d7 and d9 states, exhibiting an unusual valence state among Ni-based oxides. Finally, we discuss the Ni dx2-y2 and dz2 orbital-dependent hybridization, correlation and local spin dynamics.


---
# Structural and Electronic Properties of Ta2O5 with One Formula Unit

## 具有一个分子式单元的Ta2O5的结构和电子性质

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.11761

**Authors:** Yangwu Tong, Huimin Tang, Yong Yang

arXiv:2502.11761v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Based on particle swarm optimization (PSO) algorithm and density functional theory (DFT) calculations, we identify a stable triclinic crystal structure of Ta2O5 (named as {\gamma}1-Ta2O5) at atmospheric pressure whose unit cell contains one formula unit (Z=1). Comparison with the Z=1 Ta2O5 structures from the Materials Project [APL Mater. 1, 011002 (2013)] reveals that {\gamma}1-Ta2O5 is energetically the most stable among the Z=1 Ta2O5 phases, and is the second most stable among all the Ta2O5 phases. Characterization of {\gamma}1-Ta2O5 is carried out by analyzing the X-ray powder diffraction patterns, the elastic, vibrational, thermal and electronic properties. The electronic structures of {\gamma}1-Ta2O5 are calculated using standard DFT as well as many-body perturbation theory within the GW approximation. The results indicate that {\gamma}1-Ta2O5 is a wide band gap semiconductor with an indirect gap of ~ 3.361 eV.


---
# Exploring Novel 2D Analogues of Goldene: Electronic, Mechanical, and Optical Properties of Silverene and Copperene

## 探索Goldene的新型2D类似物: Silverene和Copperene的电子，机械和光学性质

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.11810

**Authors:** Emanuel J. A. dos Santos, Rodrigo A. F. Alves, Alexandre C. Dias, Marcelo L. Pereira Junior, Douglas S. Galv\~ao, Luiz A. Ribeiro Junior

arXiv:2502.11810v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Two-dimensional (2D) materials have garnered significant attention due to their unique properties and broad application potential. Building on the success of goldene, a monolayer lattice of gold atoms, we explore its proposed silver and copper analogs, silverene and copperene, using density functional theory calculations. Our findings reveal that silverene and copperene are energetically stable, with formation energies of -2.3 eV/atom and -3.1 eV/atom, closely matching goldene's -2.9 eV/atom. Phonon dispersion and ab initio molecular dynamics simulations confirm their structural and dynamical stability at room temperature, showing no bond breaking or structural reconfiguration. Mechanical analyses indicate isotropy, with Young's moduli of 73 N/m, 44 N/m, and 59 N/m for goldene, silverene, and copperene, respectively, alongside Poisson's ratios of 0.46, 0.42, and 0.41. These results suggest comparable rigidity and deformation characteristics. Electronic band structure analysis highlights their metallic nature, with variations in the band profiles at negative energy levels. Despite their metallic character, these materials exhibit optical properties akin to semiconductors, pointing to potential applications in optoelectronics.


---
# Superconducting phase diagram of finite-layer nickelates Nd$_{n+1}$Ni$_n$O$_{2n+2}$

## 有限层Nd $_{n 1}$ Ni $ _n $ O $_{2n 2}$ 的超导相图

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.12144

**Authors:** Andreas Hausoel, Simone Di Cataldo, Motoharu Kitatani, Oleg Janson, Karsten Held

arXiv:2502.12144v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Following the successful prediction of the superconducting phase diagram for infinite-layer nickelates, here we calculate the superconducting $T_{\mathrm{c}}$ vs. the number of layers $n$ for finite-layer nickelates using the dynamical vertex approximation. To this end, we start with density functional theory, and include local correlations non-perturbatively by dynamical mean-field theory for $n=2$ to 7. For all $n$, the Ni $d_{x^2-y^2}$ orbital crosses the Fermi level, but for $n>4$ there are additional $(\pi, \pi)$ pockets or tubes that slightly enhance the layer-averaged hole doping of the $d_{x^2-y^2}$ orbitals beyond the leading $1/n$ contribution stemming from the valence electron count. We finally calculate $T_{\mathrm{c}}$ for the single-orbital $d_{x^2-y^2}$ Hubbard model by dynamical vertex approximation.


---
# Parameterizing empirical interatomic potentials for predicting thermophysical properties via an irreducible derivative approach: the case of ThO$_2$ and UO$_2$

## 通过不可约导数方法参数化经验原子间势以预测热物理性质: ThO $_2 $ 和UO $_2 $ 的情况

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.13685

**Authors:** Shuxiang Zhou, Chao Jiang, Enda Xiao, Sasaank Bandi, Michael W. D. Cooper, Miaomiao Jin, David H Hurley, Marat Khafizov, Chris A. Marianetti

arXiv:2204.13685v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: The accuracy of classical physical property predictions using molecular dynamics simulations is determined by the quality of the interatomic potentials. Here we introduce a training approach for empirical interatomic potentials (EIPs) which is well suited for capturing phonons and phonon-related properties. Our approach is based on direct comparisons of the second- and third-order irreducible derivatives between an EIP and the Born-Oppenheimer potential within density functional theory (DFT) calculations. Irreducible derivatives fully exploit space group symmetry and allow for training without redundant information. We demonstrate the fidelity of our approach in the context of ThO$_2$ and UO$_2$, where we optimize parameters of an embedded-atom method potential in addition to core-shell interactions. Our EIPs provide thermophysical properties in good agreement with DFT and outperform widely utilized EIPs for phonon dispersion and thermal conductivity predictions. Reasonable estimates of thermal expansion and formation energies of Frenkel pairs are also obtained.


---
# Revealing Symmetry-Broken Superconducting Configurations by Density Functional Theory

## 用密度泛函理论揭示对称性破缺的超导构型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00719

**Authors:** Zi-Kui Liu, Shun-Li Shang

arXiv:2404.00719v4 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: A coherent theory for the superconductivity of both conventional and unconventional superconductors is currently lacking. Here we show that superconductivity arises from the formation of a symmetry-broken superconducting configuration (SCC) due to atomic perturbation of the normal conducting configuration (NCC). This perturbation creates straight one-dimensional tunnels (SODTs) for charge density of electrons and/or holes as revealed by the calculations based on density functional theory (DFT). The SODTs act as resistance-free superhighways and are correlated to the Cooper pairs in the Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS) theory. The formation of SODTs implies that the electron-phonon interaction in the BCS theory can be represented by the difference in charge densities between SCC and NCC predicted by DFT. The present work highlights that in conventional superconductors, SODTs are embedded within the bulk materials and are easily destroyed by phonon vibrations, resulting in a low critical superconducting temperature (T_C). Conversely, in unconventional superconductors such as YBa2Cu3O7 (YBCO7), SODTs are protected by a layered pontoon structure with very weak bonding to the bulk materials, maintaining SODTs' stability at higher temperatures and leading to a much higher T_C. The present approach is validated for 13 conventional superconductors of 18 pure elements examined in this work, including the presently predicted superconductivity in Cu, Ag, Au, Sb, and Bi at 0 K and 0 GPa, and one unconventional superconductor of YBCO7. Our discovery indicates that DFT can be a practical tool for predicting superconductors, enabling a systematic search for new superconducting materials in the future.


---
# Energy density and stress fields in quantum systems

## 量子系统中的能量密度和应力场

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.08432

**Authors:** Richard M. Martin, Nithaya Chetty, Dallas R. Trinkle

arXiv:2501.08432v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: There has been an enduring interest and controversy about whether or not one can define physically meaningful energy density and stress fields, $e({\bf r})$ and $\sigma_{\alpha \beta}({\bf r})$ in quantum systems. A key issue is kinetic energy since $\frac{1}{2}|\nabla \Psi|^2$ and $-\frac{1}{2}\Psi\nabla^2 \Psi$ lead to different densities, and analogous issues arise interaction energies. This paper presents a resolution to the problems in two steps: 1) All effects of exchange and correlation are shown to be unique functions defined at each point ${\bf r}$; all issues of non-uniqueness involve only the density $n({\bf r})$ and are equivalent to a single-particle problem with wavefunction $s({\bf r}) = \sqrt{n({\bf r})/N}$. 2) Forms for the latter terms are proposed based on the nature of energy and stress, where energy has two distinct roles. Because the energy determines the ground state itself through the variational principle, the appropriate density involves the terms in the hamiltonian: $-\frac{1}{2}\Psi\nabla^2 \Psi$ and interactions in terms of potentials acting on the particles. This leads naturally to density functional theory with the interpretation that the energy density $e({\bf r})$ is equilibrated to minimize fluctuations with the same chemical potential throughout the system. On the other hand, the energy and stress (derivative of the energy with respect to strain) are properties of the ground state, and simple examples to show that the only acceptable expressions involve the combination $\frac{1}{4}[|\nabla \Psi|^2 - \Psi\nabla^2 \Psi]$, as derived by Schrodinger, Pauli and others, and Coulomb interactions in the Maxwell form in terms of electric fields, not potentials. Together these results lead to well-defined formulations of energy density and stress fields that are physically motivated and based on a clear set of arguments.


---
# Achieving electrode smoothing by controlling the nucleation phase of metal deposition through polymer-substrate binding

## 通过聚合物-基底结合控制金属沉积的成核阶段实现电极平滑

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.05809

**Authors:** Ying Xia, Duo Song, Mingyi Zhang, Zheming Wang, Chenyang Shi, Jingshan S. Du, Sun Hae Ra Shin, Mark H. Engelhard, Praveen K. Thallapally, Christine A. Orme, Jinhui Tao, Maria L. Sushko, James. J. De Yoreo, Jun Liu

arXiv:2502.05809v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Polymer additives [like polyethylene oxide (PEO)] are widely used for smooth electrode deposition in aqueous zinc and a number of other battery systems currently investigated for energy storage applications. However, the precise mechanism by which they regulate morphology and suppress dendrite formation remains unclear. In this study, we address this knowledge gap by using in-situ electrochemical atomic force microscopy (EC-AFM) to directly observe the interfacial evolution during Zn electrodeposition and polymer adsorption on copper (Cu) substrates in the presence of varying concentrations of ZnSO4 and PEO. Contrary to previous literature assumptions which emphasize the binding to the growing Zn crystal surfaces or Zn2+ ions, our results demonstrate that PEO smooths Zn films by promoting nucleation of (002)-oriented Zn platelets through interactions with the Cu substrate. Density functional theory (DFT) simulations support this finding by showing that PEO adsorption on Cu modifies the interfacial energy of Zn/Cu/electrolyte interfaces, favoring the stabilization of Zn (002) on the Cu substrate, as well as confines Zn electrodeposition to a narrow near-surface region. These findings elucidate a novel design principle for electrode smoothing, emphasizing the importance of substrate selection paired with polymer additives that exhibit an attractive interaction with the substrate, but minimal interaction with growing crystals, offering a mechanistic perspective for improved battery performance.


---
# Improved Calculation of Acoustic Deformation Potentials from First Principles

## 从第一性原理改进声变形势的计算

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.08538

**Authors:** Patrick Williams, Angela Dyson

arXiv:2502.08538v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Using density functional theory (DFT) and density functional perturbation theory (DFPT), the band structure, phonon dispersion and electron phonon coupling matrix were calculated for silicon (Si), diamond and cubic boron nitride (cBN). From these, the acoustic deformation potential was calculated for multiple angles between the electron and phonon wave vectors and analytic expressions for the longitudinal and acoustic modes were fit to find an average deformation potential. The ability to calculate the deformation potential from first principles allows for the scattering rates to be determined without the use of lengthy empirical methods. For Si, the numerically calculated deformation potentials are in excellent agreement with what is seen in the literature. On the other hand, the deformation potentials calculated for diamond were found to be larger than what has been seen previously, however previous calculations of transport parameters in diamond report a large range of values for scattering parameters which may be due to assumptions made in each model. Excellent agreement was also seen between the value calculated for cBN and the literature, however there are no experimental results for cBN and so this value is compared against an estimate. This shows that scattering parameters can be calculated via first principles for materials with sparse experimental data, which in turn allows for increased confidence in the output of charge transport simulations of new and emerging materials.


---
# Decoherence and vibrational energy relaxation of the electronically excited PtPOP complex in solution

## 溶液中电子激发PtPOP复合物的退相干和振动能量弛豫

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.11994

**Authors:** Benedikt O Birgisson, Asmus Ougaard Dohn, Hannes J\'onsson, Gianluca Levi

arXiv:2502.11994v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Understanding the ultrafast vibrational relaxation following photoexcitation of molecules in a condensed phase is essential to predict the outcome and improve the efficiency of photoinduced molecular processes. Here, the vibrational decoherence and energy relaxation of a binuclear complex, [Pt$_2$(P$_2$O$_5$H$_2$)$_4$]$^{4-}$ (PtPOP), upon electronic excitation in liquid water and acetonitrile are investigated through direct adiabatic dynamics simulations. A quantum mechanics/molecular mechanics (QM/MM) scheme is used where the excited state of the complex is modelled with orbital-optimized density functional calculations while solvent molecules are described using potential energy functions. The decoherence time of the Pt-Pt vibration dominating the photoinduced dynamics is found to be $\sim$1.6 ps in both solvents. This is in excellent agreement with experimental measurements in water, where intersystem crossing is slow ($>10$ ps). Pathways for the flow of excess energy are identified by monitoring the power of the solvent on vibrational modes. The latter are obtained as generalized normal modes from the velocity covariances, and the power is computed using QM/MM embedding forces. Excess vibrational energy is found to be predominantly released through short-range repulsive and attractive interactions between the ligand atoms and surrounding solvent molecules, whereas solute-solvent interactions involving the Pt atoms are less important. Since photoexcitation deposits most of the excess energy into Pt-Pt vibrations, energy dissipation to the solvent is inefficient. This study reveals the mechanism behind the exceptionally long vibrational coherence of the photoexcited PtPOP complex in solution and underscores the importance of short-range interactions for accurate simulations of vibrational energy relaxation of solvated molecules.


---
# Review of the finite difference Hartree-Fock method for atoms and diatomic molecules, and its implementation in the x2dhf program

## 原子和双原子分子的有限差分hartree-fock方法及其在x2dhf程序中的实现

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.03679

**Authors:** Jacek Kobus, Susi Lehtola

arXiv:2408.03679v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We present an extensive review of the two-dimensional finite difference Hartree--Fock (FD HF) method, and present its implementation in the newest version of X2DHF, the FD HF program for atoms and diatomic molecules. The program was originally published in Comput. Phys. Commun. in 1996, and was last revised in 2013. X2DHF can be used to obtain HF limit values of total energies and multipole moments for a wide range of diatomic molecules and their ions, using either point nuclei or a finite nuclear model. Polarizabilities ($\alpha_{zz}$) and hyperpolarizabilities ($\beta_{zzz}$, $\gamma_{zzzz}$, ${A}_{z,zz}$, ${B}_{zz,zz}$) can also be computed by the program with the finite-field method. X2DHF has been extensively used in the literature to assess the accuracy of existing atomic basis sets and to help in developing new ones. As a new feature since the last revision, the program can now also perform Kohn-Sham density functional calculations with local and generalized gradient exchange-correlation functionals with the Libxc library of density functionals, enabling new types of studies. Furthermore, the initialization of calculations has been greatly simplified. As before, X2DHF can also perform one-particle calculations with (smooth) Coulomb, Green-Sellin-Zachor and Krammers-Henneberger potentials, while calculations with a superposition of atomic potentials have been added as a new feature. The program is easy to install from the GitHub repository and build via CMake using the x2dhfctl script that facilitates creating its single- and multiple-threaded versions, as well as building in Libxc support. Calculations can be carried out with X2DHF in double- or quadruple-precision arithmetic.


---
# Revealing Symmetry-Broken Superconducting Configurations by Density Functional Theory

## 用密度泛函理论揭示对称性破缺的超导构型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00719

**Authors:** Zi-Kui Liu, Shun-Li Shang

arXiv:2404.00719v4 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: A coherent theory for the superconductivity of both conventional and unconventional superconductors is currently lacking. Here we show that superconductivity arises from the formation of a symmetry-broken superconducting configuration (SCC) due to atomic perturbation of the normal conducting configuration (NCC). This perturbation creates straight one-dimensional tunnels (SODTs) for charge density of electrons and/or holes as revealed by the calculations based on density functional theory (DFT). The SODTs act as resistance-free superhighways and are correlated to the Cooper pairs in the Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS) theory. The formation of SODTs implies that the electron-phonon interaction in the BCS theory can be represented by the difference in charge densities between SCC and NCC predicted by DFT. The present work highlights that in conventional superconductors, SODTs are embedded within the bulk materials and are easily destroyed by phonon vibrations, resulting in a low critical superconducting temperature (T_C). Conversely, in unconventional superconductors such as YBa2Cu3O7 (YBCO7), SODTs are protected by a layered pontoon structure with very weak bonding to the bulk materials, maintaining SODTs' stability at higher temperatures and leading to a much higher T_C. The present approach is validated for 13 conventional superconductors of 18 pure elements examined in this work, including the presently predicted superconductivity in Cu, Ag, Au, Sb, and Bi at 0 K and 0 GPa, and one unconventional superconductor of YBCO7. Our discovery indicates that DFT can be a practical tool for predicting superconductors, enabling a systematic search for new superconducting materials in the future.


---
# An Efficient Workflow for Generation of Conformational Ensembles of Density Functional Theory Quality: Dimers of Polycyclic (Hetero-)Aromatics

## 用于生成密度泛函理论质量的构象集合的有效工作流程: 多环 (杂) 芳烃的二聚体

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-tm4ff?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Jessica J, Ortlieb

Several composite density functional theory (DFT) methods, namely HF-3c, B97- 3c, PBEh-3c, r2SCAN-3c, and ωB97X-3c, were tested for accuracy and efficiency in computing binding energies of seven low-lying conformers of the pyrene homodimer, both in the gas phase and in toluene solution. The most promising method was B97-3c, with a Mean Absolute Deviation (MAD) for binding energies of 0.5 kJ/mol, relative to ωB97X-V/def2-TZVP results. Thus, B97-3c was used in a multi-tiered approach for generating conformational ensembles for a series of homodimers. The workflow involves six steps: (i) generate an initial ensemble, using the conformer-rotamer ensemble sam- pling tool (CREST), and its underlying GFN2-xTB method; (ii) reoptimize each mem- ber of the ensemble using B97-3c; (iii) discard duplicates and high-energy conformers; (iv) reoptimize the remaining conformers using ωB97X-D4/def2-SVP; (v) if needed, discard any high energy or duplicate conformers; (vi) compute vibrational frequencies using ωB97X-D4/def2-SVP and final single point energies using ωB97X-V/def2- QZVPP. The six-step workflow allows the generation of large DFT-quality ensembles efficiently, as demonstrated on the known pyrene dimer ensemble, and then applied to the homodimers of eight small polycyclic (hetero-)aromatic molecules related to asphaltenes: anthracene, phenanthrene, fluorenone, dibenzofuran, dibenzothiophene, dibenzothiophene oxide, N -methylcarbazole, and benzo[h]quinoline. The refined ensembles enabled an analysis of trends in dimerization structures and energies for these monomers, revealing a strong dependence for binding energy upon the magnitude of dipole cancellation.

