# Saturable absorption in highly excited laser-irradiated silicon and its suppression at the surface

## 高激发激光辐照硅中的饱和吸收及其在表面的抑制

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.111.075105

**Authors:** Shunsuke Yamada and Tomohito Otobe

Author(s): Shunsuke Yamada and Tomohito Otobe<br /><p>Nonlinear electronic excitation in laser-irradiated silicon at finite electron temperatures is numerically investigated by first-principles calculations based on the time-dependent density functional theory. In bulk silicon at finite temperatures under near-infrared laser irradiation, we found that …</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 111, 075105] Published Mon Feb 03, 2025


---
# Quantum effects in surface diffusion: application to diffusion of nitrogen adatoms over GaN(0001) surface

## 表面扩散中的量子效应: 在GaN(0001) 表面上氮原子扩散中的应用

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.19079

**Authors:** Pawe{\l} Strak, Cyprian Sobczak, Stanislaw Krukowski

arXiv:2501.19079v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: It is shown that quantum effects play determining role in nitrogen adatom diffusion due to several different factors. This could be related to the change of the energy of the quantum states and also due to the redistribution of electrons between the quantum states, both full and resonant, via quantum statistics partially governed by the Fermi energy level. These effects were studied in the case of nitrogen diffusion over clean and gallium covered Ga-terminated GaN(0001) surface. For the fractional coverage the density functional theory (DFT) calculations show that at the saddle point configuration the redistribution of electrons between different quantum states may affect the surface diffusion barrier significantly. The other quantum influence occurs via the change of the minimal energy configuration. Under fractional Ga coverage of GaN(0001) surface the nitrogen diffusion energy barrier proceeds from the resonant states governed energy minimal H3 site across the saddle point in the bridge configuration. At this path the barrier is affected the electron redistribution between surface quantum states both in the initial and the saddle point. In the case of the full GaN coverage the diffusion path is from on-top N adatom configuration via H3 site that corresponds to maximal energy. Therefore the diffusion barrier is Ebar= 1.18 eV for clean and Ebar= 0.92 eV for (1/6) ML to finally Ebar= 1.23 eV for full Ga coverage. Thus the overall barrier is reduced to Ebar= 0.92 eV due to quantum statistics effects. The identified stable N on-top configuration for the full coverage is essential for atomic mechanism of GaN growth in Ga-rich regime.


---
# Strong geometry dependence of the X-ray Thomson Scattering Spectrum in single crystal silicon

## 单晶硅中x射线汤姆逊散射光谱的强烈几何依赖性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.19276

**Authors:** Thomas Gawne, Zhandos A. Moldabekov, Oliver S. Humphries, Karen Appel, Carsten Baehtz, Victorien Bouffetier, Erik Brambrink, Attila Cangi, Celine Cr\'episson, Sebastian G\"ode, Zuzana Kon\^opkov\'a, Mikako Makita, Mikhail Mishchenko, Motoaki Nakatsutsumi, Lisa Randolph, Sebastian Schwalbe, Jan Vorberger, Ulf Zastrau, Tobias Dornheim, Thomas R. Preston

arXiv:2501.19276v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We report on results from an experiment at the European XFEL where we measured the x-ray Thomson scattering (XRTS) spectrum of single crystal silicon with ultrahigh resolution. Compared to similar previous experiments, we consider a more complex scattering setup, in which the scattering vector changes orientation through the crystal lattice. In doing so, we are able to observe strong geometric dependencies in the inelastic scattering spectrum of silicon at low scattering angles. Furthermore, the high quality of the experimental data allows us to benchmark state-of-the-art TDDFT calculations, and demonstrate TDDFT's ability to accurately predict these geometric dependencies. Finally, we note that this experimental data was collected at a much faster rate than another recently reported dataset using the same setup, demonstrating that ultrahigh resolution XRTS data can be collected in more general experimental scenarios.


---
# Coupling Dichroism in Strong-Coupled Chiral Molecule-Plasmon Nanoparticle System

## 强耦合手性分子-等离激元纳米粒子系统中的耦合二向色性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.18952

**Authors:** Nan Gao, Haoran Liu, Yurui Fang

arXiv:2501.18952v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: The interaction between intense light-matter not only promotes emerging applications in quantum and nonlinear optics but also facilitates changes in material properties. Plasmons can significantly enhance not only molecular chirality but also the coupling strength. In this study, we investigate the coupling dichroism in a strongly coupled chiral molecule-plasmonic nanoparticle system using RT-TDDFT. By simulating the interaction between L/D- Phenylglycinol molecules and chiral aluminum clusters (Na-doped Al197Na4), we examine the effects of molecular chirality, cluster chirality, and the coupled effect in the system. Our results demonstrate that the achiral/chiral clusters induce significant spectral shifts and enhance molecular CD signals due to strong plasmon-molecule coupling. The electric-field distribution and transition contribution maps (TCMs) reveal the formation of bonding and antibonding polaritonic modes, modulated by molecular proximity to the cluster. Both of the coupling factor and decay rate of the coupled system will be modulated by the chirality of the molecules and the cluster. Furthermore, we find that increasing the number of coupled molecules leads to a substantial increase in the intensity of lower polaritonic modes, highlighting the collective behavior in multi-molecule systems due to the modal crosstalk or resonance between cluster chirality and molecular chirality. These findings provide valuable insights into the fundamental mechanisms governing plasmon-enhanced chirality at the atomic scale, which have implications for the design of highly sensitive chiral sensors and optoelectronic devices.


---
# Coupling Dichroism in Strong-Coupled Chiral Molecule-Plasmon Nanoparticle System

## 强耦合手性分子-等离激元纳米粒子系统中的耦合二向色性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.18952

**Authors:** Nan Gao, Haoran Liu, Yurui Fang

arXiv:2501.18952v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The interaction between intense light-matter not only promotes emerging applications in quantum and nonlinear optics but also facilitates changes in material properties. Plasmons can significantly enhance not only molecular chirality but also the coupling strength. In this study, we investigate the coupling dichroism in a strongly coupled chiral molecule-plasmonic nanoparticle system using RT-TDDFT. By simulating the interaction between L/D- Phenylglycinol molecules and chiral aluminum clusters (Na-doped Al197Na4), we examine the effects of molecular chirality, cluster chirality, and the coupled effect in the system. Our results demonstrate that the achiral/chiral clusters induce significant spectral shifts and enhance molecular CD signals due to strong plasmon-molecule coupling. The electric-field distribution and transition contribution maps (TCMs) reveal the formation of bonding and antibonding polaritonic modes, modulated by molecular proximity to the cluster. Both of the coupling factor and decay rate of the coupled system will be modulated by the chirality of the molecules and the cluster. Furthermore, we find that increasing the number of coupled molecules leads to a substantial increase in the intensity of lower polaritonic modes, highlighting the collective behavior in multi-molecule systems due to the modal crosstalk or resonance between cluster chirality and molecular chirality. These findings provide valuable insights into the fundamental mechanisms governing plasmon-enhanced chirality at the atomic scale, which have implications for the design of highly sensitive chiral sensors and optoelectronic devices.


---
# Strong geometry dependence of the X-ray Thomson Scattering Spectrum in single crystal silicon

## 单晶硅中x射线汤姆逊散射光谱的强烈几何依赖性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.19276

**Authors:** Thomas Gawne, Zhandos A. Moldabekov, Oliver S. Humphries, Karen Appel, Carsten Baehtz, Victorien Bouffetier, Erik Brambrink, Attila Cangi, Celine Cr\'episson, Sebastian G\"ode, Zuzana Kon\^opkov\'a, Mikako Makita, Mikhail Mishchenko, Motoaki Nakatsutsumi, Lisa Randolph, Sebastian Schwalbe, Jan Vorberger, Ulf Zastrau, Tobias Dornheim, Thomas R. Preston

arXiv:2501.19276v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We report on results from an experiment at the European XFEL where we measured the x-ray Thomson scattering (XRTS) spectrum of single crystal silicon with ultrahigh resolution. Compared to similar previous experiments, we consider a more complex scattering setup, in which the scattering vector changes orientation through the crystal lattice. In doing so, we are able to observe strong geometric dependencies in the inelastic scattering spectrum of silicon at low scattering angles. Furthermore, the high quality of the experimental data allows us to benchmark state-of-the-art TDDFT calculations, and demonstrate TDDFT's ability to accurately predict these geometric dependencies. Finally, we note that this experimental data was collected at a much faster rate than another recently reported dataset using the same setup, demonstrating that ultrahigh resolution XRTS data can be collected in more general experimental scenarios.


---
# Strong parity-violation effects induced by large-amplitude motions: A quantum-dynamics study of substituted chiral methanols

## 大振幅运动引起的强烈的奇偶校验违反效应: 取代手性甲醇的量子动力学研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.02302

**Authors:** Ayaki Sunaga

arXiv:2411.02302v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: An enhanced mechanism is proposed for the large-amplitude-motion-induced parity-violating frequency by integrating the exact quantum dynamics method with the relativistic electronic structure theory. The torsional wavefunctions and PV frequency shifts are obtained by the exact quantum dynamics method. The potential energy curve and PV energy along the torsional coordinates are calculated using the extended atomic mean-field two-component Hamiltonian. The predicted PV frequency shift for the torsional transition of CFClBrOH is approximately 100 times larger than that of the conventional C-F stretching mode of CHFClBr. The maximum PV frequency shift (3.2 Hz) is obtained in the CHBrIOH molecule.


---
# Gas-sensitive detection of gas pollutants (CO, CO 2 , N 2 O) by monolayer Ti-C 2 N -V : a DFT study

## 单层ti-c 2 n-v气敏检测气体污染物 (CO，CO 2，N 2 O) 的DFT研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5858612/latest

Recently, the use of efficient gas sensors to detect air pollutants has become one of the key steps for the timely identification of environmental problems. It is very meaningful to develop a gas-sensor that more accurately and efficiently detects certain air pollutants in the environment that are harmful to the human body. In this work, we report on the properties of a novel high-performance gas sensor (Ti-C2N&amp;minus;&amp;thinsp;V) for detection of gas pollutants (CO, CO2, N2O) by using first-principles calculation methods of density functional theory (DFT). The binding energy, recovery time (&tau;), density of state (DOS), differential charge density, conductivity (&sigma;) and gas sensitivity (S) were investigated. These results provide important insights on the sensitivity of Ti-C2N&amp;minus;&amp;thinsp;V to these three gases is CO2&amp;thinsp;&amp;gt;&amp;thinsp;CO&amp;thinsp;&amp;gt;&amp;thinsp;N2O. Interestingly, we demonstrate that their sensitivity exhibits values up to 1.61&amp;times;108, 1.99&amp;times;1012, and 8.75&amp;times;1012 at room temperature. The results show that Ti-C2N&amp;minus;&amp;thinsp;V monolayer material has great potential as an efficient gas sensor to effectively monitor these three harmful gases, providing a theoretical basis for the practical application of Ti-C2N&amp;minus;&amp;thinsp;V monolayer as a high-efficiency gas sensor for CO, CO2 and N2O.


---
# In silico analysis of doxorubicin analogues conjugated to polysorbate 80 for sustained and targeted delivery to the brain

## 与聚山梨酯80缀合的阿霉素类似物的计算机分析，用于持续和靶向递送到大脑

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5910276/latest

Drug discovery for the treatment of central nervous system (CNS) diseases is a highly complex affair, especially due to the blood brain barrier (BBB) restricting the entry of many drugs. In the present study, we utilized in silico studies to screen twelve derivatives of doxorubicin (DOX) against seven tumor proteins. The DOX ligands were modelled and optimized using Density Functional Theory (DFT), and the binding affinity was evaluated. Seven tumor proteins were selected for docking and their PDB IDs were: 3LGL, 2IG0, 3LGF, 4RG2, 3PG7, 3LH0, and 4HBM. Later, an attempt was made to deliver these modified DOX ligands into the brain using a non-ionic surfactant, polysorbate 80 (PS80). Modified DOX ligands-PS80 conjugated structures were made using Semi empirical methods. After categorizing 12 DOX ligands and 12 DOX-PS80 conjugated ligands, the top-ranked three DOX ligands (R6, R4, and R9) and their conjugates with PS80 (R6-PS80, R4-PS80, and R9-PS80) underwent comprehensive molecular dynamics (MD) analysis. The best DOX ligands and their conjugated structures with PS80 were subjected to a thorough examination for structural stability (RMSD), intermolecular hydrogen bond (H-bond) interactions, effect of solvent accessibility (SASA), and compactness (Rg). The results demonstrated that these ligands and conjugated ligands exhibited folding behavior and were incredibly stable. Furthermore, we employed MM/GBSA to figure out the docking scores of the top three DOX-PS80-conjugated ligands. In silico pharmacokinetic parameters of all compounds were analyzed using the ADMET AI server. It is shown that attaching to PS80 could potentially decrease the overall toxicity of DOX ligands. These findings indicate that the modified DOX ligands, when combined with PS80, have the potential to cross the BBB and could be used for further in vitro and in vivo evaluation.

