# Exploring the mechanism of phase transitions between the hexagonal close-packed and the cuboidal structures

## 探索六方密堆积与立方结构之间的相变机理

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.09828

**Authors:** Andres Robles-Navarro, Shaun Cooper, Odile R. Smits, Peter Schwerdtfeger

arXiv:2502.09828v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: By introducing appropriate lattice parameters for a bi-lattice smoothly connecting the hexagonal close-packed (hcp) with the cuboidal structures, namely the body-centered (bcc) and the face centered cubic (fcc) lattices, we were able to map out the minimum energy path for a Burgers-Bain type of phase transition. We demonstrate that for three different models applied, i.e. the kissing hard-sphere model, the Lennard-Jones potential, and density functional theory for metallic lithium, the direct transition path is always from hcp to fcc with a separate path leading from fcc to bcc. This solves, at least for the models considered here, a long-standing controversy of whether or not fcc acts as an intermediate phase in martensitic type of phase transitions.


---
# Universal Stochastic Equations of Monitored Quantum Dynamics

## 监测量子动力学的通用随机方程

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.16974

**Authors:** Zhenyu Xiao, Tomi Ohtsuki, Kohei Kawabata

arXiv:2408.16974v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We investigate the monitored quantum dynamics of Gaussian mixed states and derive the universal Fokker-Planck equations that govern the stochastic time evolution of entire density-matrix spectra, obtaining their exact solutions. From these equations, we reveal an even-odd effect in purification dynamics: whereas entropy exhibits exponential decay for an even number $N$ of complex fermions, algebraic decay with divergent purification time occurs for odd $N$ as a manifestation of dynamical criticality. Additionally, we identify the universal fluctuations of entropy in the chaotic regime, serving as a non-unitary counterpart of the universal conductance fluctuations in mesoscopic electronic transport phenomena. Furthermore, we elucidate and classify the universality classes of non-unitary quantum dynamics based on fundamental symmetry. We also validate the universality of these analytical results through extensive numerical simulations across different types of models.


---
# Exchange-Correlation Potentials and Energy Densities through Orbital Averaging and Aufbau Integration

## 通过轨道平均和Aufbau积分的交换相关势和能量密度

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.10262

**Authors:** Vaibhav Khanna, Bikash Kanungo, Jeffrey Hatch, Joshua Kammeraad, Paul M. Zimmerman

arXiv:2502.10262v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Exchange-correlation potentials vxc and energy densities exc are derived for integer and fractional electron counts using an orbital-averaged Kohn-Sham inversion procedure. The reference densities for inversion come from full configuration interaction in a Slater orbital basis. The orbital-averaged potentials accurately capture key features of vxc, including the asymptotic negative one over r decay and the step discontinuity associated with integer electron transitions for the series of atoms He through Ne. Exchange-correlation energy densities exc are produced through an aufbau path integral. The energy densities reach good agreement with total Exc values. By providing full configuration interaction-derived Kohn-Sham quantities, including vxc, exc, and step contributions, this workflow can be instrumental in the development of improved XC functionals that bridge wavefunction-level accuracy with the computational efficiency of density functional theory.


---
# Exploring the mechanism of phase transitions between the hexagonal close-packed and the cuboidal structures

## 探索六方密堆积与立方结构之间的相变机理

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.09828

**Authors:** Andres Robles-Navarro, Shaun Cooper, Odile R. Smits, Peter Schwerdtfeger

arXiv:2502.09828v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: By introducing appropriate lattice parameters for a bi-lattice smoothly connecting the hexagonal close-packed (hcp) with the cuboidal structures, namely the body-centered (bcc) and the face centered cubic (fcc) lattices, we were able to map out the minimum energy path for a Burgers-Bain type of phase transition. We demonstrate that for three different models applied, i.e. the kissing hard-sphere model, the Lennard-Jones potential, and density functional theory for metallic lithium, the direct transition path is always from hcp to fcc with a separate path leading from fcc to bcc. This solves, at least for the models considered here, a long-standing controversy of whether or not fcc acts as an intermediate phase in martensitic type of phase transitions.


---
# Spatially Resolved In Situ HERFD-XANES studies of ZnS Nanoparticle Synthesis at the Water-Toluene Interface

## ZnS纳米粒子在水-甲苯界面合成的空间分辨原位herfd-xanes研究

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-800wx?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Dorota, Koziej

A two-phase synthesis has been well established for achieving precise control of nanoparticle properties. However, studying and understanding chemical transformation in such a spatially heterogeneous system is challenging. In this work, we introduce a two-phase synthesis route for ZnS nanoparticles (ZnS NPs) at the water-toluene interface. By employing spatially resolved in situ high-energy resolution fluorescence-detected X-ray absorption spectroscopy (HERFD-XAS) combined with density functional theory (DFT) calculations, we track the diffusion of Zn²⁺ species at the interface, identify key reaction intermediates, and monitor the nucleation and growth of ZnS NPs within the toluene phase. We propose the formation of a [Zn(H2O)¬6]2+ complex upon dissolving Zn(Ac)2 in water and the diffusion of Zn2+ ions from water to toluene driven by the formation of an octahedral [Zn(OA)6]2+ complex (OA = oleylamine). Furthermore, by complementing HERFD-XAS with total X-ray scattering analysis, we show the formation of an intermediate tetrahedral [Zn(SR)4]2+ complex at 60 °C and its successive transformation to non-crystalline ZnS nuclei at 80 °C and crystalline ZnS NPs starting at 100 °C. Thus, we demonstrate how in situ X-ray spectroscopy can elucidate the coordination and diffusion of Zn²⁺ ions, and, in combination with X-ray scattering studies, identify the emergence of atomic and electronic structures during the two-phase synthesis of ZnS nanoparticles.


---
# Prediction and Rationalization of Site Preference of Rare Earth Elements in Fluorapatite from Density Functional Theory

## 氟磷灰石中稀土元素位置偏好的密度泛函理论预测及合理化

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-wnfmp?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Angelika D.,  Rosa

Fluorapatite (FAp, nominally Ca10(PO4)6F2) has been identified as an important host-material for rare earth elements and yttrium (REY) in marine sediments. REY can be accommodated in either the larger 6+3 coordinated Ca1 site or the smaller 6+1 coordinated Ca2 site, yet little is known about the site preference of REY through the lanthanide series despite its importance for understanding REY enrichment processes in FAp. Theoretical investigations based on density functional theory (DFT) predict that all REY intrinsically prefer the smaller and more ionic Ca2 site. The Ca2 site preference is less pronounced when the excess of positive charge resulting from the REY3+ for Ca2+ substitution is compensated by a coupled Na+ for Ca2+ substitution, instead of the energetically more favorable Si4+ for P5+ coupled substitution. The site preference varies quadratically with the ionic radius of REY and linearly with the sum of their first and second ionization energies. The quadratic shape of the site preference is similar to the shape of Onuma diagrams, which suggests that the local effective elastic constant of the site controls the site preference, rather than the nominal size of the site. Despite being smaller, the Ca2 site has a lower effective elastic constant, and is, therefore, more flexible than the Ca1 site for accommodating larger and smaller trivalent REY cations. Concentration-dependent computations show that REY clustering is thermodynamically favorable, except for Yb and Lu.

