# Achieving electrode smoothing by controlling the nucleation phase of metal deposition through polymer-substrate binding

## 通过聚合物-基底结合控制金属沉积的成核阶段实现电极平滑

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.05809

**Authors:** Ying Xia, Duo Song, Mingyi Zhang, Zheming Wang, Chenyang Shi, Jingshan S. Du, Sun Hae Ra Shin, Mark H. Engelhard, Praveen K. Thallapally, Christine A. Orme, Jinhui Tao, Maria L. Sushko, James. J. De Yoreo, Jun Liu

arXiv:2502.05809v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Polymer additives [like polyethylene oxide (PEO)] are widely used for smooth electrode deposition in aqueous zinc and a number of other battery systems currently investigated for energy storage applications. However, the precise mechanism by which they regulate morphology and suppress dendrite formation remains unclear. In this study, we address this knowledge gap by using in-situ electrochemical atomic force microscopy (EC-AFM) to directly observe the interfacial evolution during Zn electrodeposition and polymer adsorption on copper (Cu) substrates in the presence of varying concentrations of ZnSO4 and PEO. Contrary to previous literature assumptions which emphasize the binding to the growing Zn crystal surfaces or Zn2+ ions, our results demonstrate that PEO smooths Zn films by promoting nucleation of (002)-oriented Zn platelets through interactions with the Cu substrate. Density functional theory (DFT) simulations support this finding by showing that PEO adsorption on Cu modifies the interfacial energy of Zn/Cu/electrolyte interfaces, favoring the stabilization of Zn (002) on the Cu substrate, as well as confines Zn electrodeposition to a narrow near-surface region. These findings elucidate a novel design principle for electrode smoothing, emphasizing the importance of substrate selection paired with polymer additives that exhibit an attractive interaction with the substrate, but minimal interaction with growing crystals, offering a mechanistic perspective for improved battery performance.


---
# Electric Field-Induced Formation of a 2D Adatom Gas on Cryogenic Li Surfaces

## 低温Li表面上电场诱导的2D吸附气体的形成

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.06518

**Authors:** Shyam Katnagallu, Huan Zhao, Se-Ho Kim, Baptiste Gault, Christoph Freysoldt, J\"org Neugebauer

arXiv:2502.06518v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Intense electrostatic fields, such as those able to break bonds and cause field-ion emission, can fundamentally alter the behaviour of atoms at and on the surface. Using density functional theory (DFT) calculations on the Li (110) surface under high electrostatic fields, we identify a critical field strength at which surface atoms occupying a kink site become thermodynamically unstable against adatom formation. This mechanism leads to the formation of a highly concentrated two-dimensional (2D) adatom gas on the surface. Moreover, the applied field reverses the stability of preferred adsorption sites, enabling barrierless diffusion of lithium atoms even well below the threshold required for field evaporation. The here identified mechanisms offer a unified explanation for experimental observations in atom probe tomography and for understanding high electric field phenomena in systems such as battery interfaces and electrochemical environments.


---
# Subspace-projected multireference covariant density functional theory

## 子空间投影多参考协变密度泛函理论

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.00691

**Authors:** X. Zhang, C. C. Wang, C. R. Ding, J. M. Yao

arXiv:2408.00691v4 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Multireference density functional theory (MR-DFT) has been a pivotal method for studying nuclear low-lying states and neutrinoless double-beta ($0\nu\beta\beta$) decay. However, quantifying their theoretical uncertainties has been a significant challenge due to the computational demands. This study introduces a subspace-projected covariant density functional theory (SP-CDFT), which efficiently emulates MR-CDFT calculations for nuclear low-lying states. This approach leverages the eigenvector continuation method combined with the quantum-number projected generator coordinate method, based on a relativistic energy density functional (EDF). We apply SP-CDFT to investigate the correlations among the physical quantities of nuclear matter, nuclear low-lying spectroscopy, and the nuclear matrix elements (NMEs) of $0\nu\beta\beta$ decay in the two heaviest candidate nuclei. Our findings reveal generally strong correlations between the NMEs of $0\nu\beta\beta$ decay and the excitation energy of the $2_1^+$ state, as well as the $E2$ transition strength, although these correlations vary significantly among nuclei. This work also paves the way for refining nuclear EDF parameters using spectroscopic data.


---
# The Ridge Integration Method and its Application to Molecular Sieving, Demonstrated for Gas Purification via Graphdiyne Membranes

## 脊积分方法及其在分子筛中的应用，已通过石墨炔膜进行气体净化

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.06654

**Authors:** Christian W. Binder, Johannes K. Krondorfer, Andreas W. Hauser

arXiv:2502.06654v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Eyring theory provides a convenient approximation to the rate of a chemical reaction, as it uses only local information evaluated near extremal points of a given potential energy surface. However, in cases of pronounced anharmonicity and particularly low-lying vibrational frequencies, deviations from the correct reaction rate can become substantial. Molecular Dynamics simulations, on the other hand, are very costly at higher levels of theory, and of limited use since molecular reactions are `rare' events and hence statistically less accessible. In this article, we present an alternative description for problems of gas separation and storage via two-dimensional materials such as porous graphene or flat metal-organic frameworks. Taking geometric advantage of the typical problem setting, our method is based on a statistical analysis of molecular trajectories near the so-called `ridge', a hypersurface which divides the reaction volume into a reactant and a product side. It allows for more realistic predictions of permeabilities and selectivities, e.g. derived from density functional theory, but without the considerable costs of a full molecular dynamics simulation on the corresponding Born-Oppenheimer potential energy surface. We test our method on the example of methane separation from nitrogen and carbon dioxide via a graphdiyne membrane.


---
# Direct Carbonate Reduction on Sn Oxide Surface

## Sn氧化物表面的直接碳酸盐还原

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-jcdht?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Juqin, Zeng

Direct reduction of carbonate (CO32‒) to value-added chemicals presents several advantages for integrating CO2 capture from air with electrochemical conversion at near-unity efficiency. However, a critical challenge lies in effectively adsorbing CO32‒ as a reactive intermediate for sequential reduction. Density functional theory calculations indicate that the presence of oxygen vacancies (xVO) on a SnO2 surface significantly enhances its reactivity toward CO32‒ adsorption, with the resulting adsorbed species (*CO3) detectable by Raman spectroscopy. Operando electrochemical Raman spectra have confirmed the formation of *CO3 on the partially reduced SnO2-xVO surface. Pulse electrolysis has successfully converted CO32‒ to CO at a constant flow rate in an electrolyzer featuring a gas diffusion electrode configuration. A reaction cycle, encompassing SnO2 partial reduction, CO32‒ adsorption and reduction, and SnO2 regeneration, has been proposed as a viable approach for continuous direct CO32‒ reduction.


---
# Genie in a Bottle – Formation and Reactivity of an Elusive Monomeric Mn(IV)-Oxo Species Inside a Cavitand Pore

## 瓶中的精灵-空腔和孔内难以捉摸的单体Mn(IV)-氧代物种的形成和反应性

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-133gp?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Orit, Cohen

Metal-functionalized cavitands are promising platforms for mimicking the chemical environments of hydrophobic pockets in natural metalloenzymes. However, successfully combining the unique supramolecular capabilities of cavitand scaffolds, with the high reactivity of transition metal complexes, still remains a major challenge. In this study, we present a conceptually novel cavitand architecture featuring a coordinatively-unsaturated Mn(II) center embedded deep within its pore. This metallocavitand was employed to generate a Mn(IV)-oxo species inside a molecular cavity. This elusive intermediate was fully characterized spectroscopically (UV-vis, EPR, and HRMS) and – for the first time for a pseudo-octahedral Mn(IV)-oxo species – also by XRD. The experimental data was corroborated by detailed ab-initio/TDDFT calculations, confirming the Mn(IV)-oxo (rather than Mn(III)-oxyl) electronic character of this species. Reactivity and mechanistic studies, including monitoring the decay of this complex in various chlorinated solvents and its reactions with representative substrates, revealed that despite the steric protection provided by the cavitand scaffold, its Mn(IV)-oxo core remains highly reactive in both H atom abstraction (HAA) and O atom transfer (OAT) reactions. Moreover, this reactivity is subject to a high degree of steric control imposed by the cavitand framework capable of discriminating between potential substrate molecules based on their size and shape. This was further demonstrated by the regioselective oxidation of a bisphosphine substrate – emulating the regioselectivity of natural metalloenzymes.


---
# Enabling accurate and large-scale explicitly correlated CCSD(T) computations via a reduced-cost and parallel implementation

## 通过降低成本和并行实现实现准确和大规模的显式相关CCSD(T) 计算

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-t3z9k?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** László, Gyevi-Nagy

Parallel algorithms to accelerate explicitly correlated second-order Moller–Plesset (MP2) and coupled-cluster singles and doubles with perturbative triples [CCSD(T)] calculations and benchmarks on extended molecular systems are reported. A hybrid Open Multi-Processing (OpenMP)/Message Passing Interface (MPI) parallel approach is used to distribute the computational load among processor cores and compute nodes. The intermediates at both the MP2 and the CCSD(T) levels are expressed in a density fitting formalism, using only three-index quantities to decrease the amount of data to be stored and communicated. To further reduce compute time, the frozen natural orbital, the natural auxiliary function, and the natural auxiliary basis schemes are implemented in a hybrid parallel manner. The combination of these three approximations and our recent size-consistent explicitly correlated triples correction with the new hybrid parallelization offers a unique accuracy-over-cost performance among explicitly correlated CC methods. Our comprehensive benchmarks demonstrate excellent parallel scaling of the cost-determining operations up to hundreds of processor cores. As demonstrated on the non-covalent interaction energy of the corannulene dimer, highly- accurate explicitly correlated CCSD(T) calculations can be carried out for systems of 60-atoms and 2500 orbitals, which were beyond computational limits without local correlation approximations. This enables various applications, such as benchmarking of or, for certain size ranges, replacing local CCSD(T) or density functional methods as well as the further advancement of robust thermochemistry protocols designed for larger molecules of ca. 20–50-atoms.


---
# Optimizing Cation-π  Force Fields for Molecular Dynamics Studies of Competitive Solvation in Conjugated Organosulfur Polymers for Lithium-Sulfur Batteries

## 优化阳离子-π 力场，用于锂硫电池共轭有机硫聚合物中竞争溶剂化的分子动力学研究

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-n7s1r-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Joachim, Dzubiella

Lithium-sulfur (Li/S) batteries are emerging as a next-generation energy storage technology due to their high theoretical energy density and cost-effectiveness. π-conjugated organosulfur polymers, such as poly(4-(thiophene-3-yl)benzenethiol) (PTBT), have shown promise in overcoming challenges such as the polysulfide shuttle effect by providing a conductive framework and enabling sulfur copolymerization. In these cathodes, cation-π interactions significantly influence Li+ diffusion and storage properties in π-conjugated cathodes, but classical OPLS-AA force fields fail to capture these effects. This study employs a bottom-up approach based on density functional theory (DFT) to optimize the nonbonded interaction parameters (OPLS-AA/corr.), particularly for the Li+-π interactions with the PTBT polymer. Following prior work, we used an ion-induced dipole potential to model the cation-π interactions. The impact of the solvent on the PTBT monomers was examined by computing the potential of mean force (PMF) between PTBT monomers and Li+ ions in both explicit and implicit solvents using the Boltzmann inversion of probability distributions close to room temperature. In the implicit solvent case, the magnitude of the binding free energy decreased with increasing dielectric constant, as the dominant electrostatics scaled with the dielectric constant. In contrast, in the explicit solvent case, considering the mixtures of organic solvent DME and DOL, the binding free energy shows minimal dependence on solvent composition due to the competing interaction of TBT and Li+ with the solvent molecules. However, increasing salt concentration decreases the binding free energy due to Debye-Hückel screening effects. In general, this work suggests that the optimized parameters can be widely used in the simulation of polymers in electrolytes for the Li/S battery to enhance the representation of cation-π interactions for a fixed charge force field.

