# Predictive simulations of the dynamical response of mesoscopic devices

## 介观器件动态响应的预测模拟

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.12960

**Authors:** Samuel Boutin, Torsten Karzig, Tareq El Dandachi, Ryan V. Mishmash, Jan Gukelberger, Roman M. Lutchyn, Bela Bauer

arXiv:2502.12960v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: As the complexity of mesoscopic quantum devices increases, simulations are becoming an invaluable tool for understanding their behavior. This is especially true for the superconductor-semiconductor heterostructures used to build Majorana-based topological qubits, where quantitatively understanding the interplay of topological superconductivity, disorder, semiconductor quantum dots, Coulomb blockade and noise has been essential for progress on device design and interpretation of measurements. In this paper, we describe a general framework to simulate the low-energy quantum dynamics of such complex systems. We illustrate our approach by computing the dispersive gate sensing (DGS) response of quantum dots coupled to topological superconductors. We start by formulating the DGS response as an open-system quantum dynamics problem, which allows a consistent treatment of drive backaction as well as quantum and classical noise. For microscopic quantum problems subject to Coulomb-blockade, where a direct solution in the exponentially large many-body Hilbert space would be prohibitive, we introduce a series of controlled approximations that incorporate ideas from tensor network theory and quantum chemistry to reduce this Hilbert space to a few low-energy degrees of freedom that accurately capture the low-energy quantum dynamics. We demonstrate the methods introduced in this paper on the example of a single quantum dot coupled to a topological superconductor and a microscopic realization of the fermion parity readout setup of Aghaee et al. arXiv:2401.09549 (2024).


---
# Dynamical pathways for the interaction of O2, H2O, CH4, and CO2 with a-alumina surfaces: Density functional tight-binding calculations

## O2，H2O，CH4和CO2与a-氧化铝表面相互作用的动力学途径: 密度泛函紧密结合计算

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13100

**Authors:** F. J. Dominguez-Gutierrez, Amil Aligayev, Wenyi Huo, Muralidhar Chourashiya, Qinqin Xu, Stefanos Papanikolaou

arXiv:2502.13100v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: In this study, we investigated the physisorption mechanisms of O2, H2O, CH4, and CO2 molecules on alumina and their effect on electronic properties. We employed quantum-classical molecular dynamics simulations and the self-consistent-charge density-functional tight-binding (SCC-DFTB) approach to dynamically model these mechanisms. Our results revealed the binding pathways of O, H, and C atoms in the various molecules to Al and O atoms at the top atomic layers of the alpha-alumina surface. We examined several adsorption sites and molecular orientations relative to Al-terminated and Ox-terminated alumina surfaces and found that the most stable physisorbed state on the Al-terminated surface is located above the Al atom, while the Ox-terminated state is found above the oxygen, resulting in enhanced optical adsorbance. The dissociation of CH4 into CH2+H2 after interaction with the surface resulted in hydrogen production, but with low adsorbate rates. While, O2 molecules primarily bond to the Al atoms, leading to the highest adsorbance rate among the other molecules. Our findings provide important insights into the physisorption mechanisms of molecules on alumina and their impact on electronic properties


---
# Exciton-Polariton Dynamics in Multilayered Materials

## 多层材料中的激子-极化子动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.12933

**Authors:** Saeed Rahmanian Koshkaki, Arshath Manjalingal, Logan Blackham, Arkajit Mandal

arXiv:2502.12933v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Coupling excitons with quantized radiation has been shown to enable coherent ballistic transport at room temperature inside optical cavities. Previous theoretical works employ a simple description of the material, depicting it as a single layer placed in the middle of the optical cavity, thereby ignoring the spatial variation of the radiation in the cavity quantization direction. In contrast, in most experiments, the optical cavity is filled with organic molecules or multilayered materials. Here, we develop an efficient mixed-quantum-classical approach, introducing a {\it bright layer} description, to simulate the exciton-polariton quantum dynamics. Our simulations reveal that, for the same Rabi splitting, a multilayer material extends the quantum coherence lifetime and enhances transport compared to a single-layer material. We find that this enhanced coherence can be traced to a synchronization of phonon fluctuations over multiple layers, wherein the collective light-matter coupling in a multilayered material effectively suppresses the phonon-induced dynamical disorder.


---
# CH$_4$ and CO$_2$ Adsorption Mechanisms on Monolayer Graphenylene and their Effects on Optical and Electronic Properties

## CH $_4 $ 和CO $_2 $ 在单层石墨烯上的吸附机理及其对光学和电子性能的影响

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.13472

**Authors:** A. Aligayev, F. J. Dominguez-Gutierrez, M. Chourashiya, S. Papanikolaou, Q. Huang

arXiv:2307.13472v3 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: In this study, we employ a computational chemistry-based modeling approach to investigate the adsorption mechanisms of CH$_4$ and CO$_2$ on monolayer GPNL, with a specific focus on their effects on optical adsorption and electrical transport properties at room temperature. To simulate the adsorption dynamics as closely as possible to experimental conditions, we utilize the self-consistent charge tight-binding density functional theory (SCC-DFTB). Through semi-classical molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, we observe the formation of H$_2$ molecules from the dissociation of CH$_4$ and the formation of CO+O species from carbon dioxide molecules. This provides insights into the adsorption and dispersion mechanisms of CH$_4$ and CO$_2$ on GPNL. Furthermore, we explore the impact of molecular adsorption on optical absorption properties. Our results demonstrate that CH$_4$ and CH$_2$ affects drastically the optical adsorption of GPNL, while CO$_2$ does not significantly affect the optical properties of the two-dimensional material. To analyze electron transport, we employ the open-boundary non-equilibrium Green's function method. By studying the conductivity of GPNL and graphene under voltage bias up to 300 mV, we gain valuable insights into the electrical transport properties of GPNL under optical absorption conditions. The findings from our computational modeling approach might contribute to a deeper understanding of the potential applications of GPNL in hydrogen production and advanced electronic devices.


---
# Exciton-Polariton Dynamics in Multilayered Materials

## 多层材料中的激子-极化子动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.12933

**Authors:** Saeed Rahmanian Koshkaki, Arshath Manjalingal, Logan Blackham, Arkajit Mandal

arXiv:2502.12933v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Coupling excitons with quantized radiation has been shown to enable coherent ballistic transport at room temperature inside optical cavities. Previous theoretical works employ a simple description of the material, depicting it as a single layer placed in the middle of the optical cavity, thereby ignoring the spatial variation of the radiation in the cavity quantization direction. In contrast, in most experiments, the optical cavity is filled with organic molecules or multilayered materials. Here, we develop an efficient mixed-quantum-classical approach, introducing a {\it bright layer} description, to simulate the exciton-polariton quantum dynamics. Our simulations reveal that, for the same Rabi splitting, a multilayer material extends the quantum coherence lifetime and enhances transport compared to a single-layer material. We find that this enhanced coherence can be traced to a synchronization of phonon fluctuations over multiple layers, wherein the collective light-matter coupling in a multilayered material effectively suppresses the phonon-induced dynamical disorder.


---
# Probing curved spacetime with a distributed atomic processor clock

## 用分布式原子处理器时钟探测弯曲时空

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.12954

**Authors:** Jacob P. Covey, Igor Pikovski, Johannes Borregaard

arXiv:2502.12954v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Quantum dynamics on curved spacetime has never been directly probed beyond the Newtonian limit. Although we can describe such dynamics theoretically, experiments would provide empirical evidence that quantum theory holds even in this extreme limit. The practical challenge is the minute spacetime curvature difference over the length scale of the typical extent of quantum effects. Here we propose a quantum network of alkaline earth(-like) atomic processors for constructing a distributed quantum state that is sensitive to the differential proper time between its constituent atomic processor nodes, implementing a quantum observable that is affected by post-Newtonian curved spacetime. Conceptually, we delocalize one clock between three locations by encoding the presence or absence of a clock into the state of the local atoms. By separating three atomic nodes over $\sim$km-scale elevation differences and distributing one clock between them via a W-state, we demonstrate that the curvature of spacetime is manifest in the interference of the three different proper times that give rise to three distinct beat notes in our non-local observable. We further demonstrate that $N$-atom entanglement within each node enhances the interrogation bandwidth by a factor of $N$. We discuss how our system can probe new facets of fundamental physics, such as the linearity, unitarity and probabilistic nature of quantum theory on curved spacetime. Our protocol combines several recent advances with neutral atom and trapped ions to realize a novel quantum probe of curved spacetime uniquely enabled by quantum networks.


---
# CH$_4$ and CO$_2$ Adsorption Mechanisms on Monolayer Graphenylene and their Effects on Optical and Electronic Properties

## CH $_4 $ 和CO $_2 $ 在单层石墨烯上的吸附机理及其对光学和电子性能的影响

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.13472

**Authors:** A. Aligayev, F. J. Dominguez-Gutierrez, M. Chourashiya, S. Papanikolaou, Q. Huang

arXiv:2307.13472v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: In this study, we employ a computational chemistry-based modeling approach to investigate the adsorption mechanisms of CH$_4$ and CO$_2$ on monolayer GPNL, with a specific focus on their effects on optical adsorption and electrical transport properties at room temperature. To simulate the adsorption dynamics as closely as possible to experimental conditions, we utilize the self-consistent charge tight-binding density functional theory (SCC-DFTB). Through semi-classical molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, we observe the formation of H$_2$ molecules from the dissociation of CH$_4$ and the formation of CO+O species from carbon dioxide molecules. This provides insights into the adsorption and dispersion mechanisms of CH$_4$ and CO$_2$ on GPNL. Furthermore, we explore the impact of molecular adsorption on optical absorption properties. Our results demonstrate that CH$_4$ and CH$_2$ affects drastically the optical adsorption of GPNL, while CO$_2$ does not significantly affect the optical properties of the two-dimensional material. To analyze electron transport, we employ the open-boundary non-equilibrium Green's function method. By studying the conductivity of GPNL and graphene under voltage bias up to 300 mV, we gain valuable insights into the electrical transport properties of GPNL under optical absorption conditions. The findings from our computational modeling approach might contribute to a deeper understanding of the potential applications of GPNL in hydrogen production and advanced electronic devices.


---
# Operando Spectroscopic Insights into the Key Role of Phase
Engineering in Cobalt Diselenide for Overall Water Electrolysis

## Operando光谱洞察相位的关键作用
用于整体水电解的二硒化钴工程

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-tl41k?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Greta R. , Patzke

Identification of the true catalytically active species/sites
holds the key to new catalyst design. In this study, combination of complementary operando surface/bulk sensitive spectroscopic techniques and density functional theory (DFT) calculations establish a clear picture of the structure-activity relations in marcasite- and pyrite-type CoSe2 for overall water splitting. Our results reveal that
under acidic conditions marcasite CoSe2 undergoes slight surface corrosion, producing disordered [CoSe6] motifs with the active Se sites for catalyzing the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). In contrast, during the alkaline HER, the marcasite CoSe2 initially interacts with the electrolyte to reconstruct an O-rich covered surface, which
subsequently undergoes potential-driven restructuring to generate the metallic cobalt species as the true active species. Such dynamic changes of the active species/sites along with variations in pH values were not observed in pyrite CoSe2, either with or without heteroatom substitution, highlighting the significant importance of phase engineering in managing the HER kinetics. Further operando spectroelectrochemical monitoring demonstrates that the in situ generation of highly disordered Co4+ species is a common denominator of CoSe2 catalysts for the oxygen evolution reaction (OER). This study directly evidences the dynamic influence of local coordination geometries of the catalytic active centers on the underlying catalytic reaction kinetics.


---
# Facet-dependent polaron stability in photocatalysis by SrTiO3: A constrained DFT study

## SrTiO3光催化中取决于小平面的极化子稳定性: 受约束的DFT研究

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-rgvcd?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Tatsuya, Joutsuka

Strontium titanate (SrTiO3 or STO) is one of the promising photocatalysts for sustainable energy applications. Using the density functional theory (DFT) calculations, we herein study the structural and electronic factors contributing to its high photocatalytic activity and facet dependence. The constrained DFT method revealed that the hole polarons in bulk and surface STO are localized primarily on oxygen atoms. In contrast, electron polarons in bulk STO tend to delocalize over oxygen atoms unless stabilized by oxygen vacancies. The stability of hole polarons is higher at the surface O site of the (110) surface compared to the (001) surfaces. In addition, the oxygen vacancy is stable specifically at the TiO2-terminated (001) surface. These findings provide an atomic-level insight into the relationship between polaron stability and facet dependence of photocatalysis, paving the way for the design of more efficient STO-based photocatalysts.


---
# First principles study of molecular hydrogen activation by defects in boron nitride

## 氮化硼中缺陷分子氢活化的第一性原理研究

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-6pf79?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Tom, Autrey

We used density functional theory simulations in combination with ab initio thermodynamics to determine the H2 partial pressure (p_("H" _"2"  )) dependent energetics associated with H2 activation and recovery at various defect sites in hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN). We found that some defects are very reactive with hydrogen thereby definitely trapping hydrogen in defective h-BN. However, depending on hydrogen partial pressure, less reactive defect sites can be populated. Because of the lower binding capability of these sites, they would allow for hydrogen to be recycled and recovered. For small defect sizes, we found that hydrogen preferentially bind to nitrogen sites by forming N—H bonds, and if no N sites are available then boron sites would be the next to bind hydrogen. Hydrogen dissociation via Frustrated Lewis Pair (FLP) is found to be more favorable than forming only N—H bonds but only if the defect size is large enough to accommodate steric effects. For specific conditions such as T= 400 K, p_("H" _"2"  )=1 bar, and only considering one molecular H2 per defect, three defects, namely the N monovacancy, 3V(1B2N), and hexagonal 6V(3B3N) could play a role in both the activation and recycling of H2, as they would be reacting enough to allow a favorable splitting of H2 while not binding too strongly to allow its recovery. More broadly, a range of p_("H" _"2"  ) and hydrogen loading conditions were investigated for different types of defects and the finding suggests that p_("H" _"2"  ) could be used to fine tune the Gibbs free energy of hydrogenation, thereby allowing several types of defects at different hydrogen loading content to play a role in the activation/recovery process of H2 in defective h-BN.

