# Freeze-and-release direct optimization method for variational calculations of excited electronic states

## 用于激发电子态变分计算的冻结和释放直接优化方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.18568

**Authors:** Yorick L. A. Schmerwitz, Elli Selenius, Gianluca Levi

arXiv:2501.18568v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Time-independent, orbital-optimized density functional approaches outperform time-dependent density functional theory (TDDFT) in calculations of excited electronic states involving a large rearrangement of the electron density, such as charge transfer excitations. However, optimizing orbitals for excited states remains challenging, as the latter typically correspond to saddle points on the electronic energy surface. A simple and robust strategy for variational orbital optimization of excited states is presented. The approach involves two steps: (1) a constrained energy minimization, where a subset of orbitals changed by the excitation are frozen, followed by (2) a fully unconstrained saddle point optimization. The constrained minimization step makes it possible to identify the electronic degrees of freedom along which the energy needs to be maximized, preventing variational collapse. Both steps of this freeze-and-release strategy are carried out using direct optimization algorithms with a computational scaling comparable to ground state calculations. Numerical tests using a semilocal functional are performed on intramolecular charge transfer states of organic molecules and intermolecular charge transfer states of molecular dimers. It is shown that the freeze-and-release direct optimization (FR-DO) approach can successfully converge challenging charge transfer states, overcoming limitations of conventional algorithms based on the maximum overlap method, which either collapse to lower energy, charge-delocalized solutions or fail to converge. While FR-DO requires more iterations on average, the overall increase in computational cost is small. For the NH3-F2 dimer, it is found that unlike TDDFT, orbital-optimized calculations reproduce the correct long-range dependency of the energy with respect to the donor-acceptor separation without the need to include exact exchange in the long range.


---
# Polyelectrolyte brush at thermal equilibrium:
A density functional theory approach

## 热平衡时的聚电解质刷:
密度泛函理论方法

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-tfls5?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Mike, Edwards

The long standing problem of Polyelectrolyte brushes at thermal equilibrium is
approached here by using density functional theory (DFT) framework. The results
confirms that by increasing the Bjerrum length of the medium, the counterions get
absorbed by the brush monomers the effect that is known as Manning condensation.
Additionally, it turns out that by increasing the Bjerrum Length, the monomers get
depleted from the surface but the counterions get accumulated around the surface.
These two effects could have potential technological applications in biotechnology etc
and shows that how Polyelectrolyte brushes respond to the variation of the Bjerrum
length as a key parameter in charged systems.


---
# Trends in the electronic and geometric structures of
doped two-dimensional quasi-hexagonal C60

## 电子结构和几何结构的趋势
掺杂二维准六方C60

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-6zm79?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Nicola, Gaston

Density functional theory calculations are used to assess the effect of dopant removal within the experimental quasi-hexagonal Mg4C60 material [Meirzadeh et al. Nature, 613, 71-76, 2023]. A number of geometries at each dopant ratio are considered, with each dopant ratio displaying a wide range of possible electronic structures. As such, the electronic properties are found to depend primarily on geometric factors, rather than on dopant ratios. We find that the interplay of interlayer distance and average Mg-Mg distance can be used to explain electronic structures at each dopant ratio.

