# Elastically Buckled Film-Substrate System as a Two-dimensional Crystal

## 作为二维晶体的弹性屈曲膜-基底系统

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13864

**Authors:** Wenqing Zhu

arXiv:2502.13864v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Compressive mechanical stress exceeding a critical value leads to the formation of periodic surface buckling patterns in film-substrate systems. A comprehensive understanding of this buckling phenomenon is desired in applications where the surface topologies are modulated to achieve multifunctionalities. Here we reformulate the finite-deformation elastic theory of a film-substrate system by treating the compliant substrate as a nonlinear elastic solid. The resulting elastic free energy functional of the deflection field is shown to be equivalent to a minimal density functional of phase-field crystal theory plus a Gaussian curvature-related term. The proposed elastic model constructs a phase diagram based on free energy minimization, quantitatively agreeing with the buckling transitions observed in former experiments. The emerging hexagonal buckling system is shown to be equivalent to a two-dimensional crystal with proper scalings. We further conducted simulations of repeated buckling under cyclic stress to demonstrate a dynamically modulated structural adhesive, which resembles the physical process of repeated crystallization and melting near a critical temperature.


---
# Diagnosing chaos with projected ensembles of process tensors

## 用过程张量的投影集合诊断混沌

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13930

**Authors:** Peter O'Donovan, Neil Dowling, Kavan Modi, Mark T. Mitchison

arXiv:2502.13930v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: The process tensor provides a general representation of a quantum system evolving under repeated interventions and is fundamental for numerical simulations of local many-body dynamics. In this work, we introduce the projected process ensemble, an ensemble of pure output states of a process tensor in a given basis of local interventions, and use it to define increasingly more fine-grained probes of quantum chaos. The first moment of this ensemble encapsulates numerous previously studied chaos quantifiers, including the Alicki-Fannes quantum dynamical entropy, butterfly flutter fidelity, and spatiotemporal entanglement. We discover characteristic entanglement structures within the ensemble's higher moments that can sharply distinguish chaotic from integrable dynamics, overcoming deficiencies of the quantum dynamical and spatiotemporal entropies. These conclusions are supported by extensive numerical simulations of many-body dynamics for a range of spin-chain models, including non-interacting, interacting-integrable, chaotic, and many-body localized regimes. Our work elucidates the fingerprints of chaos on spatiotemporal correlations in quantum stochastic processes, and provides a unified framework for analyzing the complexity of unitary and monitored many-body dynamics.


---
# Topological Defects in Semiconducting Carbon Nanotubes as Triplet Exciton Traps and Single-Photon Emitters

## 半导体碳纳米管中的拓扑缺陷作为三重态激子陷阱和单光子发射器

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.11134

**Authors:** Timur Biktagirov, Uwe Gerstmann, Wolf Gero Schmidt

arXiv:2408.11134v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We investigate the role of topological defects in exciton behavior in (6,5) semiconducting single-walled carbon nanotubes using density functional theory. Our study identifies the helical Stone-Wales defect as a prominent trap for triplet excitons, characterized by a large zero-field splitting consistent with experimental data and a small singlet-triplet gap. The weak electron-phonon coupling, as evidenced by a Huang-Rhys factor of 0.74, renders it a promising single-photon emitter, with the zero-phonon line predicted at 1.6 $\mu$m, within the telecom range. These insights into defect-engineered electronic structure and exciton dynamics offer promising opportunities for improving the performance of carbon nanotube-based quantum light sources and optoelectronic devices.


---
# Nonresonant quantum dynamics of a relativistic electron in counterpropagating laser beams

## 相对传播激光束中相对论电子的非共振量子动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13689

**Authors:** E. Raicher, Q. Z. Lv

arXiv:2502.13689v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: The quantum dynamics of an ultrarelativistic electron in strong counterpropagating laser beams is investigated. In contrast to the stimulated Compton scattering regime, we consider the case when in the electron rest frame the frequency of the counterpropagating wave greatly exceeds that of the copropagating one. Taking advantage of the corresponding approximation recently developed by the authors for treating the classical dynamics in this setup, we solve the Klein-Gordon and Dirac equations in the quasiclassical approximation in the Wentzel-Kramers-Brillouin (WKB) framework. The obtained wave function for the Dirac equation shows entanglement between the kinetic momentum and spin of the electron, while the spin-averaged momentum coincides with the classical counterpart as expected. The derived wave functions will enable the calculation of the probabilities of nonlinear QED processes in this counterpropagating fields configuration.


---
# Determining Site Requirements for Reactive Species in Multi-Site Catalysis on Metal Surfaces Using Excluded Areas

## 使用排除区域确定金属表面多位点催化中反应性物种的位点要求

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-f9955?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Ari F., Fischer

Many metal-catalyzed reactions (e.g., hydrogenolysis, (de)hydrogenation, and hydro-deoxygenation) involve reactive species with molecular volumes that extend beyond the cross-sectional areas of exposed metal atoms. The kinetic behaviors of such reactions are well described by lattice-based models that account for adsorbates occupying multiple adjacent sites (i.e., exposed metal atoms). Site requirements are often inferred from the number of metal atoms an adsorbate coordinates to, which can underpredict the number of contiguous sites that are inaccessible to co-adsorbates by lateral repulsion. Here, we instead determine adsorbate site requirements from the surface areas they exclude from co-adsorbates. These areas are determined from adsorbate structures, optimized previously using density functional theory (DFT), by projecting their molecular volumes onto the surface plane (AS) or by tracing their areas with a circular probe that represents co-adsorbates (Aenc). These excluded areas agree with those inferred from the experimentally measured saturation coverages of eight polyatomic adsorbates on Pt(111) and Ni(111). They predict a number of sites needed for ethane hydrogenolysis on Ir nanoparticles (two to three exposed Ir atoms) that is consistent with previous kinetic measurements and DFT calculations. The areas further estimate site requirements for benzene hydrogenation on Pt nanoparticles (six exposed Pt atoms) that accurately describe rate dependences on benzene pressure, under physically realistic benzene and H-adatom coverages and with adsorption enthalpies consistent with experimental benchmarks. Excluded areas therefore offer a practical and accurate way to determine site requirements in multi-site kinetic models, facilitating mechanistic studies and guiding ab initio catalyst design for reactions of bulky molecules that inevitably cover multiple contiguous surface atoms.


---
# HFIP Solvent Effects on Enantioselectivity of Dirhodium Tetracar-boxylate-Catalyzed Cyclopropanation

## HFIP溶剂对四羧酸二钯催化环丙烷化反应对映选择性的影响

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-mlb1q?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Peng, Liu

In recent years, additives that modulate both reactivity and selectivity in rhodium catalyzed-reactions of aryldiazoacetaes have become increasingly prominent. 1,1,1,3,3,3-Hexafluoroisopropanol (HFIP) has been shown to have a profound effect on rhodium carbene reac-tivity and selectivity, especially on enabling carbene cyclopropanation in the presence of various nucleophilic poisons. HFIP also has a variable influence on the enantioselectivity of the reactions catalyzed by chiral dirhodium tetracarboxylates, and this study examines the fundamental properties of the rhodium carbene/HFIP system through experimentation, density functional theory (DFT), and molecu-lar dynamics (MD) simulations. These studies revealed that the C4-symmetric bowl-shaped catalysts, which have been previously consid-ered to be relatively rigid, experience far greater flexibility in this hydrogen bonding media, resulting in distortion of the bowl-shaped cata-lysts. These studies explain why even though a majority of the catalysts have a drop in enantioselectivity in HFIP, some catalysts such as Rh2(TCPTAD)4, lead to a switch in enantioselectivity, whereas others, such as Rh2(NTTL)4, lead to a considerably enhanced enantiose-lectivity.


---
# Regulation of Active Hydrogen and Nitrate Concentration: Pulsed Potential Strategies in Nitrate Electroreduction Microenvironments

## 活性氢和硝酸盐浓度的调节: 硝酸盐电还原微环境中的脉冲电位策略

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5630926/latest

The electrochemical reduction of nitrate (NO3RR) plays a significant role in the nitrogen cycle and environmental remediation. The dynamics of active hydrogen in the NO3RR were studied in depth by varying the nitrate concentration and applying a pulsed-potential approach. The effect of both factors on regulation of the degree of hydrogenation of the intermediates and the product distribution was evaluated. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations indicated that elevated nitrate levels decrease the energy barrier for *NO to *N conversion, enhancing *N2 formation. The experimental results indicate that under high nitrate concentrations, copper-palladium (CuPd) catalysts exhibit faster reaction kinetics and higher nitrogen selectivity. In-situ characterizations illuminated the critical role of active hydrogen on reaction intermediates. The CuPd catalyst achieved 95% NO3-N conversion and 99% N2 selectivity at 1 M nitrate by pulse potential modulation of the active hydrogen concentration on the catalyst surface. Finite element analysis (FEA) verified that pulsed potentials modulate the local nitrate and hydrogen ion concentrations. The present work brings the NO3RR closer to practical applications, aiding in environmental protection and the balance of the nitrogen cycle.

