# Multiple Chern Bands in Twisted ${\mathrm{MoTe}}_{2}$ and Possible Non-Abelian States

## 扭曲 ${\ mathrm{MoTe }}_{ 2}$ 中的多个Chern带和可能的非阿贝利安状态

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevLett.134.066601

**Authors:** Cheng Xu, Ning Mao, Tiansheng Zeng, and Yang Zhang

Author(s): Cheng Xu, Ning Mao, Tiansheng Zeng, and Yang Zhang<br /><p>We investigate the moiré band structures and a possible even-denominator fractional quantum Hall state in small angle twisted bilayer ${\mathrm{MoTe}}_{2}$, using combined large-scale local basis density functional theory calculation and continuum model exact diagonalization. Via large-scale first-p…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. Lett. 134, 066601] Published Mon Feb 10, 2025


---
# Interpreting tunneling spectroscopic maps of a dinuclear Co(II) complex on gold

## 解释金上双核Co(II) 配合物的隧穿光谱图

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.111.085409

**Authors:** Roberto Robles, Chao Li, Sara Realista, Paulo N. Martinho, Manuel Gruber, Alexander Weismann, Nicolás Lorente, and Richard Berndt

Author(s): Roberto Robles, Chao Li, Sara Realista, Paulo N. Martinho, Manuel Gruber, Alexander Weismann, Nicolás Lorente, and Richard Berndt<br /><p>Scanning tunneling microscope data from a dinuclear Co(II) complex adsorbed on Au(111) are analyzed using density functional theory calculations. We find that the interaction with the substrate substantially changes the geometry of the nonplanar molecule. Its electronic states, however, remain fairl…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 111, 085409] Published Mon Feb 10, 2025


---
# Strongly dispersive dielectric properties of high-ScN-fraction ScAlN deposited by molecular beam epitaxy

## 分子束外延沉积的高ScN分数ScAlN的强色散介电性能

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.04539

**Authors:** Vikrant J. Gokhale, James G. Champlain, Matthew T. Hardy, James L. Hart, Andrew C. Lang, Saikat Mukhopadhyay, Jason A. Roussos, Shawn C. Mack, Gabriel Giribaldi, Luca Colombo, Matteo Rinaldi, Brian P. Downey

arXiv:2502.04539v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We present a comprehensive study of dielectric properties including complex permittivity, loss, and leakage of high-ScN-fraction ScAlN thin films grown using molecular beam epitaxy (MBE). Dielectric spectroscopy is carried out on high-ScN-fraction (30%-40% ScN fraction) samples from 20 Hz to 10 GHz. We find that real permittivity {\epsilon}' increases significantly with increasing ScN fraction; a trend confirmed by density functional theory. Further, {\epsilon}' is strongly dispersive with frequency and increasing ScN fraction, with values for Sc0.4Al0.6N varying from 150 down to 60 with increasing frequency. Loss, dispersion, and DC leakage current correspondingly increase with ScN fraction. The high {\epsilon}' and strongly dispersive behavior in MBE ScAlN are not observed in a sputter-deposited ScAlN control with a similar ScN fraction, highlighting fundamental differences between films produced by the two deposition methods. Microscopy and spectroscopy analyses are carried out on MBE- and sputter-deposited samples to compare microstructure, alloy, and dopant concentration.


---
# Symmetry Properties of Quantum Dynamical Entropy

## 量子动力学熵的对称性质

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.04442

**Authors:** Eric D. Schultz, Keiichiro Furuya, Laimei Nie

arXiv:2502.04442v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We investigate the relation between the Alicki-Fannes-Lindblad (AFL) quantum dynamical entropy and quantum symmetries. We show that, while the cumulative AFL entropy generally saturates to the dimensional bound at late times for chaotic dynamics, this saturation value is distinctively lower when the partitions (measurements) respect the symmetries. We provide rigorous analysis to this lowered value in three cases: Abelian symmetries, anticommuting unitaries, and non-Abelian symmetries. We further support our analytical results with numerical simulations of the perturbed quantum cat maps. Our findings highlight the complex relationship between the cumulative AFL entropy and symmetries, and suggest that caution is needed when interpreting it as an indicator of quantum chaos.


---
# Explicit Pfaffian Formula for Amplitudes of Fermionic Gaussian Pure States in Arbitrary Pauli Bases

## 任意保利基中费米子高斯纯态振幅的显式Pfaffian公式

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.04857

**Authors:** M. A. Rajabpour, M. A. Seifi Mirjafarlou

arXiv:2502.04857v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: The explicit computation of amplitudes for fermionic Gaussian pure states in arbitrary Pauli bases is a long-standing challenge in quantum many-body physics, with significant implications for quantum tomography, experimental studies, and quantum dynamics. These calculations are essential for analyzing complex properties beyond traditional measures, such as formation probabilities, global entanglement, and entropy in non-standard bases, where exact and computationally efficient methods remain underdeveloped. In particular, having explicit formulas is crucial for optimizing negative log-likelihood functions in quantum tomography, a key task in the NISQ era. In this work, we present an explicit Pfaffian formula (Theorem 1) for determining these amplitudes in arbitrary Pauli bases, utilizing a Pfaffian of a matrix based on qubit parity. Additionally, we introduce a recursive relation (Theorem 2) that links the amplitudes of systems with different qubit counts, enabling scalable calculations for large systems. Together, these results provide a versatile framework for applications in global entanglement, Shannon-R\'enyi entropy, formation probabilities, and quantum tomography, significantly expanding the computational toolkit for analyzing complex quantum systems.


---
# A Method to Decipher "Genome" from Interatomic Cohesion in the Exploration for a "Central Dogma" Replacement in Material Science

## 一种从原子间凝聚力中破译 “基因组” 的方法，以探索材料科学中的 “中心教条” 替代

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.07942

**Authors:** Xinxu Zhang, Jiahao Wei, Hui Jia, Jiamin Liu, Guo Li, Ling Liu, Yulong Wu, Changlong Liu, Xiao-Dong Zhang, Yonghui Li

arXiv:2305.07942v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: In the ball-stick model, interatomic cohesions are considered "sticks". But enormous details and features of the "sticks" are usually oversimplified as indexed quantities or equivocated as geometry characteristics. These indexed quantities or geometry characteristics not only limit the explanatory capability to a few chemical/physical aspects but also eliminate generativity for expected resemblance. And these limitations can be related to the information loss during the conversion. Herein, inspired by the central dogma, a framework is introduced to compact interatomic cohesions into a detailed residue-by-residue "genome" with matched encoding/decoding tools. The framework fuses the quantum mechanical aspects, auto feature extraction, nanostructures and/or simulations, and generative models. As a proof of concept, the realization introduced in this work adopted bosonic/fermionic features, an autoencoder with image recognition processes, Density Functional Theory simulations, and a thiolate-protected gold nanocluster dataset. After repetitive modeling, validating, and analysis based on 26,528 simulated interatomic images, the interatomic cohesion can be almost losslessly encoded into an 8-value-genome, and the genome encoder-decoder pair is also obtained. The model is then automatically extended into a generative model which converts any arbitrary 8-value-genome to a bond image.


---
# Applying the Liouville-Lanczos Method of Time-Dependent Density-Functional Theory to Warm Dense Matter

## 将随时间变化的密度泛函理论的liouville-lanczos方法应用于温暖的致密物质

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.04921

**Authors:** Zhandos A. Moldabekov, Sebastian Schwalbe, Thomas Gawne, Thomas R. Preston, Jan Vorberger, Tobias Dornheim

arXiv:2502.04921v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Ab initio modeling of dynamic structure factors (DSF) and related density response properties in the warm dense matter (WDM) regime is a challenging computational task. The DSF, convolved with a probing X-ray beam and instrument function, is measured in X-ray Thomson scattering (XRTS) experiments, which allows for the study of electronic structure properties at the microscopic level. Among the various ab initio methods, linear response time-dependent density functional theory (LR-TDDFT) is a key framework for simulating the DSF. The standard approach in LR-TDDFT for computing the DSF relies on the orbital representation. A significant drawback of this method is the unfavorable scaling of the number of required empty bands as the wavenumber increases, making LR-TDDFT impractical for modeling XRTS measurements over large energy scales, such as in backward scattering geometry. We consider and test an alternative approach that employs the Liouville-Lanczos (LL) method for simulating the DSF. This approach does not require empty states and allows the DSF at large momentum transfer values and over a broad frequency range to be accessed. We compare the results obtained from the LL method with those from the standard LR-TDDFT within the projector augmented-wave formalism for isochorically heated aluminum and warm dense hydrogen. Additionally, we utilize exact path integral Monte Carlo (PIMC) results for the imaginary-time density-density correlation function (ITCF) of warm dense hydrogen to rigorously benchmark the LL approach. We discuss the application of the LL method for calculating DSFs and ITCFs at different wavenumbers, the effects of pseudopotentials, and the role of Lorentzian smearing. The successful validation of the LL method under WDM conditions makes it a valuable addition to the ab initio simulation landscape, supporting experimental efforts and advancing WDM theory.


---
# Obtaining (BN)4C10 with excellent optoelectronic properties by screening boron-nitrogen analogues of cyclo[18]carbon, (BN)nC(18-2n) (n = 1–9)

## 通过筛选环 [18] 碳的硼氮类似物获得具有优异光电性能的 (BN)4C10，(BN)nC(18-2n) (n = 1-9)

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-drwgp?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Tian, Lu

The geometric structures as well as electronic, nonlinear optical, and photophysical properties of boron-nitrogen (B-N) analogues of cyclo[18]carbon (C18), (BN)nC(18-2n) (n = 1–9), were comprehensively studied using density functional theory (DFT) and time-dependent DFT (TD-DFT) for screening the ring with excellent optoelectronic performances. As the C-C units in the molecules are continuously replaced by B-N units, almost all geometric parameters change monotonically, while almost all electronic properties undergo a turning point at (BN)4C10, suggesting that (BN)4C10 may have special optoelectronic properties. The isotropic polarizabilities of (BN)nC(18-2n) (n = 1–9) decrease sequentially with an increase in the number of B-N units in the molecule, while the total first hyperpolarizabilities as well as the values corresponding to second harmonic generation (SHG) and hyper-Rayleigh scattering (HRS) experiments first increase and then decrease, reaching their respective maximum at (BN)4C10. Taking (BN)4C10 as an example, the anisotropic feature, spatial contribution, and structural origin of (hyper)polarizability were revealed thoroughly by analyzing (hyper)polarizability tensor, (hyper)polarizability density, and (hyper)polarizability decomposition, respectively. The frequency dispersion effect has a positive impact on increasing the response properties of (BN)nC(18-2n) (n = 1–9), and the higher the incident frequency of the applied field, the greater its effect on improving the molecular (hyper)polarizability. The absorption bands of (BN)nC(18-2n) (n = 1–9) lie in the ultraviolet range of 125–400 nm, indicating the transparency of these molecules in the visible light region. The hole-electron analysis of (BN)4C10 graphically and numerically illustrated that the maximum absorption of the molecule comes from localized electron excitation on the C-C moiety, which should also be a common characteristic of all (BN)nC(18-2n) (n = 1–9). The two-level model was used to rationalize the observed variation of the total first hyperpolarizability with replacement of groups from the perspective of electron excitation.


---
# Organozinc reagents in solution: insights from ab initio molecular dynamics and X-ray absorption spectroscopy

## 溶液中的有机锌试剂: 从头算分子动力学和x射线吸收光谱的见解

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-0xd0x-v4?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Quentin, PESSEMESSE

Organozinc reagents play a critical role in synthesis, yet our comprehension of their structure-reactivity relationships is limited by a lack of information about their structures in solution. This study introduces a computational workflow, validated by X-ray absorption spectroscopy, to investigate organozinc reagents in solution. The solvation states of ZnCl2, ZnMeCl and ZnMe2 were explored using ab initio molecular dynamics (metadynamics and Blue Moon sampling) within an explicit solvent cage. The study revealed the existence of various solvation states at room temperature, providing clarity on the previously debated structure of ZnMe2 in THF solution. These findings were confirmed by near- edge X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XANES) interpreted using time-dependent density functional theory (TD-DFT) calculations.


---
# Exploring Quantum Computing for Metal Cluster Analysis

## 金属团簇分析的量子计算探索

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-r43l4?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** A'Laura, Hines

This study explores the application of quantum computing to metal cluster analysis through the development and implementation of a quantum-DFT embedding workflow. Classical computational methods, while transformative, often face limitations in achieving chemical accuracy and computational efficiency, particularly for nanoscale systems. To address these challenges, we integrate the Variational Quantum Eigensolver (VQE) with density functional theory (DFT), leveraging the capabilities of quantum computing aiming to improve the modeling of electronic structures. Aluminum and gold clusters were used as model systems to test the established workflow. The workflow successfully determined electronic properties for aluminum clusters up to Al7.  Although gold clusters were used as a test case to investigate the potential reduction of NO, memory limitations, the lack of relativistic corrections, and the inability to handle open-shell systems presented challenges that underscore the need for advancements in quantum hardware and algorithms. This proof-of-concept study demonstrates the potential of quantum DFT embedding to advance materials discovery, including applications in catalysis and nanomaterial design, while providing insights into the current limitations of near-term quantum devices.


---
# Optimizing Cation-π  Force Fields for Molecular Dynamics Studies of Competitive Solvation in Conjugated Organosulfur Polymers for Lithium-Sulfur Batteries

## 优化阳离子-π 力场，用于锂硫电池共轭有机硫聚合物中竞争溶剂化的分子动力学研究

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-n7s1r?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Joachim, Dzubiella

Lithium-sulfur (Li/S) batteries are emerging as a next-generation energy storage technology due to their high theoretical energy density and cost-effectiveness. π-conjugated organosulfur polymers, such as poly(4-(thiophene-3-yl)benzenethiol) (PTBT), have shown promise in overcoming challenges such as the polysulfide shuttle effect by providing a conductive framework and enabling sulfur copolymerization. In these cathodes, cation-π interactions significantly influence Li+ diffusion and storage properties in π-conjugated cathodes, but classical OPLS-AA force fields fail to capture these effects. This study employs a bottom-up approach based on density functional theory (DFT) to optimize the nonbonded interaction parameters (OPLS-AA/corr.), particularly for the Li+-π interactions with the PTBT polymer. Following prior work, we used an ion-induced dipole potential to model the cation-π interactions. The impact of the solvent on the PTBT monomers was examined by computing the potential of mean force (PMF) between PTBT monomers and Li+ ions in both explicit and implicit solvents using the Boltzmann inversion of probability distributions close to room temperature. In the implicit solvent case, the magnitude of the binding free energy decreased with increasing dielectric constant, as the dominant electrostatics scaled with the dielectric constant. In contrast, in the explicit solvent case, considering the mixtures of organic solvent DME and DOL, the binding free energy shows minimal dependence on solvent composition due to the competing interaction of TBT and Li+ with the solvent molecules. However, increasing salt concentration decreases the binding free energy due to Debye-Hückel screening effects. In general, this work suggests that the optimized parameters can be widely used in the simulation of polymers in electrolytes for the Li/S battery to enhance the representation of cation-π interactions for a fixed charge force field.


---
# Polyelectrolyte brush at thermal equilibrium:
A density functional theory approach

## 热平衡时的聚电解质刷:
密度泛函理论方法

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-tfls5-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Mike, Edwards

The long standing problem of Polyelectrolyte brushes at thermal equilibrium is
approached here by using density functional theory (DFT) framework. The results
confirms that by increasing the Bjerrum length of the medium, the counterions get
absorbed by the brush monomers the effect that is known as Manning condensation.
Additionally, it turns out that by increasing the Bjerrum Length, the monomers get
depleted from the surface but the counterions get accumulated around the surface.
These two effects could have potential technological applications in biotechnology etc
and shows that how Polyelectrolyte brushes respond to the variation of the Bjerrum
length as a key parameter in charged systems.

