# Strain-induced lateral heterostructures: Hole localization and the emergence of flat bands in rippled ${\mathrm{MoS}}_{2}$ monolayers

## 应变诱导的横向异质结构: 空穴定位和波纹 ${\ mathrm{MoS }}_{ 2}$ 单层中平带的出现

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevMaterials.9.L021002

**Authors:** Meshal Alawein, Joel W. Ager, Ali Javey, and D. C. Chrzan

Author(s): Meshal Alawein, Joel W. Ager, Ali Javey, and D. C. Chrzan<br /><p>The formation of 2D lateral heterostructures in rippled ${\mathrm{MoS}}_{2}$ and similar transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDs) is studied using density functional theory. Compression of rippled TMDs beyond a threshold compression leads to the formation of a flat valence band associated with strong…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. Materials 9, L021002] Published Tue Feb 25, 2025


---
# Valley resolved dynamics of phonon bottleneck in semiconductor molybdenum ditelluride

## 半导体二碲化钼中声子瓶颈的谷解析动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.16145

**Authors:** Zhong Wang, Yijie Shi, Yu Pan, Min Li, Xi Wang, Zheng Zhang, Xiangyu Zhu, Fuyong Hua, Qian You, Chunlong Hu, Junjie He, Yu Ye, Wenxi Liang

arXiv:2502.16145v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Semiconductor molybdenum ditelluride (2H-MoTe2) possess multiple valleys in the band structure, enriching its physical properties and potentials in applications. The understanding of its multivalley nature of fundamental processes involving population and relaxation of carriers and phonons is still evolving; particularly, the possible phonon bottleneck has not yet been addressed. Here, we investigate the carrier intra- and intervalley scattering and the phonon dynamics in different valleys in photoexcited few-layer 2H-MoTe2, by using the time resolved measurements of optical absorption and electron diffraction, together with the density functional theory calculation and molecular dynamics simulation. The pathways and timescales of carrier relaxation, accompanied with the emissions of optical phonons at the Brillouin zone center and acoustic phonons at the zone border are revealed. We present a couple of approaches to estimate the population of different phonon modes based on the results of optical and electron diffraction measurements, hence quantitatively identify the occurrences of phonon bottleneck located in different valleys. Our findings make possible to construct a comprehensive picture of the complex interactions between carriers and phonons in 2H-MoTe2 with the valley degree of freedom resolved.


---
# Scaling of many-body localization transitions: Quantum dynamics in Fock space and real space

## 多体局部化跃迁的缩放: Fock空间和真实空间中的量子动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.16219

**Authors:** Thibault Scoquart, Igor V. Gornyi, Alexander D. Mirlin

arXiv:2502.16219v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Many-body-localization (MBL) transitions are studied in a family of single-spin-flip spin-$\frac12$ models, including the one-dimensional (1D) chain with nearest-neighbor interactions, the quantum dot (QD) model with all-to-all pair interactions, and the quantum random energy model (QREM). We investigate the generalized imbalance that characterizes propagation in Fock space out of an initial basis state and, at the same time, can be efficiently probed by real-space measurements. For all models considered, the average imbalance and its quantum and mesoscopic fluctuations provide excellent indicators for the position of the MBL transition $W_c(n)$, where $n$ is the number of spins. Combining these findings with earlier results on level statistics, we determine phase diagrams of the MBL transitions in the $n$-$W$ plane. Our results provide evidence for a direct transition between the ergodic and MBL phases for each of the models, without any intermediate phase. For QREM and QD model, $W_c(n)$ grows as a power law of $n$ (with logarithmic corrections), in agreement with analytical predictions $W_c^{\rm QREM}(n) \sim n^{1/2} \ln n$ and $W_c^{\rm QD}(n) \gtrsim n^{3/4} \ln^{1/2} n$. This growth is in stark contrast to the 1D model, where $W_c(n)$ is essentially independent of $n$, consistent with the analytic expectation $W_c^{\rm 1D}(n\to \infty)= {\rm const}$. We also determine the scaling of the transition width $\Delta W (n) / W_c(n)$ and estimate the system size $n$ needed to study the asymptotic scaling behavior. While these values of $n$ are not accessible to exact simulations on a classical computer, they are within the reach of quantum simulators. Our results indicate feasibility of experimental studies of $n$-$W$ phase diagrams and scaling properties of MBL transitions in models of 1D and QD type and in their extensions to other spatial geometry or distance-dependent interactions.


---
# Importance of ligand on-site interactions for the description of Mott-insulators in DFT+DMFT

## 配体现场相互作用对DFT DMFT中Mott绝缘子描述的重要性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.17229

**Authors:** Alberto Carta, Anwesha Panda, Claude Ederer

arXiv:2502.17229v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Calculations combining density functional theory (DFT) and dynamical mean-field theory (DMFT) for transition metal (TM) oxides and similar compounds usually focus on improving the description of the TM $d$ states. Here, we emphasize the importance of also accounting for corrections of the ligand $p$ states. We demonstrate that focusing exclusively on an improved description of the TM $d$ states results in difficulties to obtain the correct insulating behavior for a variety of materials, and requires to use values for the local interaction parameters that are inconsistent with values obtained using, e.g., the constrained random phase approximation (cRPA). Importantly, these considerations not only apply to cases where the $p$ states are explicitly included in the DMFT low-energy subspace, but also to cases which only include so-called frontier bands with dominant TM $d$ character. We demonstrate that, to a large part, these inconsistencies arise from the use of local/semi-local DFT as starting point for computing interaction parameters within cRPA, and we show that applying a simple empirical correction to the O $p$ and other low energy states not included in the correlated subspace results in improved values for the interaction parameters that then allow to obtain the correct insulating behavior. For the cases where the ligand states are included in the DMFT subspace, we show that even an approximate but realistic Hartree-Fock-like correction applied to the O $p$ states leads to a correct and, most importantly, also a quantitatively consistent DFT+DMFT description of typical Mott insulators such as LaTiO$_3$, LaVO$_3$, or the perovskite rare-earth nickelates, $R$NiO$_3$.


---
# Electronic and Structural Properties of Lanthanide-Doped MoS$_2$: Impact of Ionic Size and Orbital Configuration Mismatch

## 镧系元素掺杂的MoS $_2 $ 的电子和结构性质: 离子尺寸和轨道构型失配的影响

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.17336

**Authors:** Hyosik Kang, Raquel Queiroz, Lukas Muechler

arXiv:2502.17336v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Single-photon emitters (SPEs) are crucial for quantum technologies such as quantum simulation, secure quantum communication, and precision measurements. Two-dimensional transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDCs) are promising SPE candidates due to their atomically thin nature and efficient photon extraction. However, their emission wavelengths limit compatibility with existing telecommunication technologies. Lanthanide doping in TMDCs, such as \defect{MoS}{2}, offers a potential solution by introducing sharp, $f$-orbital derived emissions in the infrared range. Yet, the feasibility of introducing these dopants remains uncertain due to their large ionic radii of the lanthanides. We employ density functional theory (DFT) calculations to investigate the structural and electronic properties of lanthanide-doped \defect{MoS}{2} monolayers (Ln=Ce, Er). By evaluating formation energies with up to three adjacent S vacancies, we assess how these vacancies mitigate lattice strain caused by the size mismatch of Ce and Er with Mo. Our results show that while \defect{Ln}{Mo} destabilizes the pristine lattice, S vacancies enhance thermodynamic stability. Charge state analysis indicates that defect states introduced by \defect{Ln}{Mo} localize near the valence band and remain stable across a wide Fermi energy range. Electronic structure analysis shows that Ce$^{4+}$ and Er$^{3+}$ maintain their oxidation states upon electron doping due to additional acceptor states from host-induced dangling bonds. These states arise from an orbital filling mismatch between dopants and Mo. Consequently, \defect{Ce}{Mo} is unlikely to exhibit infrared emissions due to its empty $f$-shell, whereas \defect{Er}{Mo} is expected to emit in the infrared. These findings demonstrate the potential of lanthanide-doped TMDCs as tunable SPEs and provide design strategies for optimizing their optical and electronic properties.


---
# Comprehensive numerical analysis of doping controlled efficiency in lead free Cs(SnGe)I3 perovskites solar cell

## 无铅Cs(SnGe)I3钙钛矿太阳能电池掺杂控制效率的综合数值分析

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.07260

**Authors:** Nazmul Hasan, M. Hussayeen Khan Anik, Mohammed Mehedi Hasan, Sharnali Islam, Alamgir Kabir

arXiv:2502.07260v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: One effective way to prevent toxicity and improve the stability of materials for photovoltaic applications is to exclude lead and organic molecules from perovskite materials. Specifically, the CsSn1-xGexI3 appears to be a promising contender; nonetheless, it requires optimization, particularly bandgap tuning by doping concentration modifications. In this study, density functional theory (DFT) was employed to comprehensively analyze the electronic properties of CsSn1-xGexI3 that influenced light-matter interactions tuning of the perovskite materials by varying composition in B site atoms. We use the solar cell capacitance (SCAPS-1D) simulator to compute device performance; however, it computes the absorption spectrum using a simplified mathematical function that approximates the actual spectrum. To achieve a quantum-mechanical level of accuracy DFT extracted parameters like absorption spectra and bandgap were fed into SCAPS-1D. We find that increasing the Ge concentration leads to a higher bandgap and improved absorption profile, thereby enhancing solar energy conversion efficiency. Thermal and field distribution analyses were also done for the optimized device through a finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) framework. By optimizing the absorber layer with a 75% Ge concentration, we achieve a remarkable PCE of 23.80%. Our findings guide future research in designing high-performance non-leaded halide PSCs, paving the way for low-cost, stable, and highly efficient solar cells through atomic doping-tuned perovskite absorber layers.


---
# Valley resolved dynamics of phonon bottleneck in semiconductor molybdenum ditelluride

## 半导体二碲化钼中声子瓶颈的谷解析动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.16145

**Authors:** Zhong Wang, Yijie Shi, Yu Pan, Min Li, Xi Wang, Zheng Zhang, Xiangyu Zhu, Fuyong Hua, Qian You, Chunlong Hu, Junjie He, Yu Ye, Wenxi Liang

arXiv:2502.16145v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Semiconductor molybdenum ditelluride (2H-MoTe2) possess multiple valleys in the band structure, enriching its physical properties and potentials in applications. The understanding of its multivalley nature of fundamental processes involving population and relaxation of carriers and phonons is still evolving; particularly, the possible phonon bottleneck has not yet been addressed. Here, we investigate the carrier intra- and intervalley scattering and the phonon dynamics in different valleys in photoexcited few-layer 2H-MoTe2, by using the time resolved measurements of optical absorption and electron diffraction, together with the density functional theory calculation and molecular dynamics simulation. The pathways and timescales of carrier relaxation, accompanied with the emissions of optical phonons at the Brillouin zone center and acoustic phonons at the zone border are revealed. We present a couple of approaches to estimate the population of different phonon modes based on the results of optical and electron diffraction measurements, hence quantitatively identify the occurrences of phonon bottleneck located in different valleys. Our findings make possible to construct a comprehensive picture of the complex interactions between carriers and phonons in 2H-MoTe2 with the valley degree of freedom resolved.

