# Density Functional Tight-Binding Captures Plasmon-Driven H$_2$ Dissociation on Al Nanocrystals

## 密度泛函紧束缚在晶体纳米晶体上捕获等离子体驱动的H $_2 $ 解离

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.07094

**Authors:** Nikhil S. Chellam, George C. Schatz

arXiv:2502.07094v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Aluminum nanocrystals offer a promising platform for plasmonic photocatalysis, yet a detailed understanding of their electron dynamics and consequent photocatalytic performance has been challenging thus far due to computational limitations. Here, we employ density functional tight-binding methods (DFTB) to investigate the optical properties and H<sub>2</sub> dissociation dynamics of Al nanocrystals with varying sizes and geometries. Our real-time simulations reveal that Al's unique free-electron nature enables efficient light-matter interactions and rapid electronic thermalization. Cubic and octahedral nanocrystals ranging from 0.5 to 4.5 nm exhibit size-dependent plasmon resonances in the UV, with distinct spectral features arising from the particle geometry and electronic structure. By simulating H<sub>2</sub> dissociation near Al nanocrystals, we demonstrate that hot electrons generated through plasmon excitation can overcome the molecule's strong chemical bond within tens of femtoseconds. The laser intensity threshold is comparable to previous reports for Ag nanocrystals, though significantly lower than that of Au. Notably, the dipolar plasmon mode demonstrates higher efficiency for this reaction than the localized interband transition for particles at these sizes. Taken together, this work provides mechanistic insights into plasmon-driven catalysis and showcases DFTB's capability to study quantum plasmonics at unprecedented length and time scales.


---
# Weyl semimetal phases and intrinsic spin-Hall conductivity in SbAs ordered alloys

## SbAs有序合金中的Weyl半金属相和本征自旋霍尔电导率

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.07147

**Authors:** Muhammad Zubair, Dai Q. Ho, Duy Quang To, Shoaib Khalid, Anderson Janotti

arXiv:2502.07147v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Using density functional theory calculations we investigated possible Weyl semimetal (WSM) phases in antimony arsenide ordered alloys Sb1-xAsx (x=0, 1/6, 1/3, 1/2, 2/3, 5/6, 1). We find WSM phases for all As compositions of Sb1-xAsx with broken inversion symmetry, in contrast to Bi1-xSbx where only compositions x=1/2 and 5/6 were predicted to exhibit WSM phases. The WSM phases in Sb1-xAsx are characterized by the presence of 12 Weyl points, located within 55 meV from the Fermi level in the case of x=1/2. The robust spin-orbit coupling strength and Berry curvature in these alloys produce large spin-Hall conductivity in the range of 176-602 (hbar/e)(S/cm), comparable to that in the BiSb alloys. Finally, Sb0.5As0.5 is predicted to be almost lattice-matched to GaAs(111), with the Fermi level within the gap of the semiconductor, facilitating growth and characterization, and thus, offering promising integration with conventional semiconductors.


---
# Comprehensive numerical analysis of doping controlled efficiency in lead free Cs(SnGe)I3 perovskites

## 无铅Cs(SnGe)I3钙钛矿中掺杂控制效率的综合数值分析

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.07260

**Authors:** Nazmul Hasan, M. Hussayeen Khan Anik, Mohammed Mehedi Hasan, Sharnali Islam, Alamgir Kabir

arXiv:2502.07260v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: One effective way to prevent toxicity and improve the stability of materials for photovoltaic applications is to exclude lead and organic molecules from perovskite materials. Specifically, the CsSn1-xGexI3 appears to be a promising contender; nonetheless, it requires optimization, particularly bandgap tuning by doping concentration modifications. In this study, density functional theory (DFT) was employed to comprehensively analyze the electronic properties of CsSn1-xGexI3 that influenced light-matter interactions tuning of the perovskite materials by varying composition in B site atoms. We use the solar cell capacitance (SCAPS-1D) simulator to compute device performance; however, it computes the absorption spectrum using a simplified mathematical function that approximates the actual spectrum. To achieve a quantum-mechanical level of accuracy DFT extracted parameters like absorption spectra and bandgap were fed into SCAPS-1D. We find that increasing the Ge concentration leads to a higher bandgap and improved absorption profile, thereby enhancing solar energy conversion efficiency. Thermal and field distribution analyses were also done for the optimized device through a finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) framework. By optimizing the absorber layer with a 75% Ge concentration, we achieve a remarkable PCE of 23.80%. Our findings guide future research in designing high-performance non-leaded halide PSCs, paving the way for low-cost, stable, and highly efficient solar cells through atomic doping-tuned perovskite absorber layers.


---
# Non-adiabaticity from first principles: the exact-factorization approach for solids

## 来自第一原理的非绝热性: 固体的精确因式分解方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.07439

**Authors:** Galit Cohen, Rachel Steinitz-Eliyahu, E. K. U. Gross, Sivan Refaely-Abramson, Ryan Requist

arXiv:2502.07439v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The thorough treatment of electron-lattice interactions from first principles is one of the main goals in condensed matter physics. While the commonly applied adiabatic Born-Oppenheimer approximation is sufficient for describing many physical phenomena, it is limited in its ability to capture meaningful features originating from non-adiabatic coupling effects. The exact factorization method, starting from the full Hamiltonian of electrons and nuclei, provides a way to systematically account for non-adiabatic effects. This formalism was recently developed into an ab initio density functional theory framework. Within this framework we here develop a perturbative approach to the electronic states in solid state materials. We derive exact-factorization-based perturbations of the Kohn-Sham states up to second order in the nuclear displacements. These non-adiabatic features in the calculated energy and wavefunction corrections are expressed in terms of readily available density functional perturbation theory components.


---
# Revisiting Phase Transitions of Yttrium: Insights from Density Functional Theory

## 重温钇的相变: 密度泛函理论的见解

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.07686

**Authors:** Paras Patel, Madhavi H. Dalsaniya, Saurav Patel, Dominik Kurzyd{\l}owski, Krzysztof J. Kurzyd{\l}owski, Prafulla K. Jha

arXiv:2502.07686v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Understanding the mechanism of structural phase transitions in rare-earth elements is a fundamental challenge in condensed matter physics, with significant implications for materials science applications. In this study, we present a systematic investigation on the phase transitions of yttrium under low-pressure conditions ($<$30 GPa) focusing on the hcp, Sm-type, and dhcp phases. A comparative analysis of the generalized gradient approximation (GGA) and meta-GGA functionals reveals that the PBE-GGA functional significantly underestimates the phase transition pressures, whereas the r$^2$SCAN functional provides accurate predictions of phase transition pressures which are in excellent agreement with experimental data. The results confirm that the phase transitions in yttrium are driven by vibrational instabilities, as evidenced by the emergence of soft acoustic modes in the phonon dispersion curves for the hcp and Sm-type phase. Elastic properties calculations further confirm mechanical softening at the phase boundaries, particularly in the hcp phase, suggesting a strong correlation between elastic instability and structural transitions. These findings suggest that the emergence of soft modes in the phonon dispersion curves might be a key factor driving the structural phase transition in the rare earth materials.


---
# Quantum dynamics of a spin model with an extensive degeneracy

## 具有广泛简并性的自旋模型的量子动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.07609

**Authors:** Krishanu Ghosh, Diptiman Sen, K. Sengupta

arXiv:2502.07609v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We study the role played by extensive degeneracy in shaping the nature of the quantum dynamics of a one-dimensional spin model for both ramp and periodic drive protocols. The model displays an extensive degenerate manifold of states for a specific value of one of the parameters of its Hamiltonian. We study a linear ramp which takes the spin model through this degenerate point and show that it leads to a deviation from the usual Kibble-Zurek behavior. We also study the St\"uckelberg oscillations in such a model for a ramp which passes twice through the degenerate point. Our study indicates that such oscillations are strongly suppressed leading to a distinct behavior compared to those arising from double passage through a quantum critical point. Finally, we study the periodic dynamics of the model and show, for a large drive amplitude, the existence of special drive frequencies at which the system exhibits an approximate emergent $U(1)$ symmetry. We study the effect of this emergent symmetry on the correlators of the driven system and demonstrate the existence of dynamic symmetry restoration at these frequencies. We study the fate of the emergent symmetry when the drive amplitude is decreased and discuss possible experiments to test our theory.


---
# Energy Window Augmented Plane Waves (EWAPW)

## 能量窗口增强平面波 (EWAPW)

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.11926

**Authors:** Garry Goldstein

arXiv:2405.11926v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: In this work we present a new basis set for electronic structure calculations of crystalline solids aimed at applications to Density Functional Theory (DFT) methods. In this construction we take advantage of the fact that most DFT calculations use a convergence loop in order to obtain the eigenstates of a final Khon Sham (KS) Hamiltonian matrix - that is iterate till the eigenstates of the KS Hamiltonian matrix also give the appropriate electron density needed to obtain the KS potential needed for that KS Hamiltonian matrix. Here we propose that, for the basis used at each step of the iteration, we use the previous eigenstate basis, in the interstitial region, but augmented inside the MT sphere with the solution to the spherically averaged KS Hamiltonian for the energy window of the energy of that eigenstate. Indeed to reduce the number of times the KS potential needs to be solved inside the MT spheres it is advantageous to use energy windows and solve the KS Hamiltonian inside the MT region only once per window (at some energy inside the window) so that the KS Hamiltonian needs only be solved a small number of times per iteration, which for practical applications is on the order of ten to one hundred windows. This method combines the energy dependence of methods such as Projected Augmented Wave functions (PAW) with the ability of the basis set to adjust to the solid state (rather then atomic) environment which is similar to basis sets such as Linearized Augmented Plane Waves (LAPW).


---
# Density of States Calculation of CeO$_2$ Based on VASP

## 基于VASP的CeO $_2 $ 的态密度计算

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.10724

**Authors:** Ruyi Hou

arXiv:2501.10724v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: In this study, the Density of States (DOS) of CeO$_2$ was analyzed in detail using the Density Functional Theory (DFT) method based on VASP software. As an important functional material, CeO$_2$ finds wide applications in catalysis, optics, and electronic devices. Through structural optimization, self-consistent electronic calculations, and non-self-consistent calculations, we thoroughly investigated the crystal structure and electronic energy level distribution of CeO$_2$. The lattice parameter optimization results from the structural calculations indicated a stable crystal structure for CeO$_2$. Self-consistent electronic calculations revealed a bandgap of approximately 2.403 eV, with the valence band maximum primarily contributed by O 2p orbitals and the conduction band minimum mainly originating from Ce 4f orbitals. Non-self-consistent calculations further demonstrated the total DOS and partial DOS of CeO$_2$, confirming the significant roles of Ce 4f and O 2p states in its electronic conduction and optical properties. These results not only provide theoretical support for the applications of CeO$_2$ in catalysis and electronic materials but also deepen our understanding of its fundamental electronic structural characteristics, offering guidance for the design and development of novel CeO$_2$-based materials.


---
# Energy Window Augmented Plane Waves (EWAPW)

## 能量窗口增强平面波 (EWAPW)

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.11926

**Authors:** Garry Goldstein

arXiv:2405.11926v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: In this work we present a new basis set for electronic structure calculations of crystalline solids aimed at applications to Density Functional Theory (DFT) methods. In this construction we take advantage of the fact that most DFT calculations use a convergence loop in order to obtain the eigenstates of a final Khon Sham (KS) Hamiltonian matrix - that is iterate till the eigenstates of the KS Hamiltonian matrix also give the appropriate electron density needed to obtain the KS potential needed for that KS Hamiltonian matrix. Here we propose that, for the basis used at each step of the iteration, we use the previous eigenstate basis, in the interstitial region, but augmented inside the MT sphere with the solution to the spherically averaged KS Hamiltonian for the energy window of the energy of that eigenstate. Indeed to reduce the number of times the KS potential needs to be solved inside the MT spheres it is advantageous to use energy windows and solve the KS Hamiltonian inside the MT region only once per window (at some energy inside the window) so that the KS Hamiltonian needs only be solved a small number of times per iteration, which for practical applications is on the order of ten to one hundred windows. This method combines the energy dependence of methods such as Projected Augmented Wave functions (PAW) with the ability of the basis set to adjust to the solid state (rather then atomic) environment which is similar to basis sets such as Linearized Augmented Plane Waves (LAPW).


---
# Simulating Non-Markovian Quantum Dynamics on NISQ Computers Using the Hierarchical Equations of Motion

## 使用运动的层次方程在NISQ计算机上模拟非马尔可夫量子动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.12049

**Authors:** Xiaohan Dan, Eitan Geva, Victor S. Batista

arXiv:2411.12049v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Quantum computing offers promising new avenues for tackling the long-standing challenge of simulating the quantum dynamics of complex chemical systems, particularly open quantum systems coupled to external baths. However, simulating such non-unitary dynamics on quantum computers is challenging since quantum circuits are specifically designed to carry out unitary transformations. Furthermore, chemical systems are often strongly coupled to the surrounding environment, rendering the dynamics non-Markovian and beyond the scope of Markovian quantum master equations like Lindblad or Redfield. In this work, we introduce a quantum algorithm designed to simulate non-Markovian dynamics of open quantum systems. Our approach enables the implementation of arbitrary quantum master equations on noisy intermediate-scale quantum (NISQ) computers. We illustrate the method as applied in conjunction with the numerically exact hierarchical equations of motion (HEOM) method. The effectiveness of the resulting quantum HEOM algorithm is demonstrated as applied to simulations of the non-Lindbladian electronic energy and charge transfer dynamics in models of the carotenoid-porphyrin-\ce{C60} molecular triad dissolved in tetrahydrofuran and the Fenna-Matthews-Olson complex.


---
# Density of States Calculation of CeO$_2$ Based on VASP

## 基于VASP的CeO $_2 $ 的态密度计算

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.10724

**Authors:** Ruyi Hou

arXiv:2501.10724v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: In this study, the Density of States (DOS) of CeO$_2$ was analyzed in detail using the Density Functional Theory (DFT) method based on VASP software. As an important functional material, CeO$_2$ finds wide applications in catalysis, optics, and electronic devices. Through structural optimization, self-consistent electronic calculations, and non-self-consistent calculations, we thoroughly investigated the crystal structure and electronic energy level distribution of CeO$_2$. The lattice parameter optimization results from the structural calculations indicated a stable crystal structure for CeO$_2$. Self-consistent electronic calculations revealed a bandgap of approximately 2.403 eV, with the valence band maximum primarily contributed by O 2p orbitals and the conduction band minimum mainly originating from Ce 4f orbitals. Non-self-consistent calculations further demonstrated the total DOS and partial DOS of CeO$_2$, confirming the significant roles of Ce 4f and O 2p states in its electronic conduction and optical properties. These results not only provide theoretical support for the applications of CeO$_2$ in catalysis and electronic materials but also deepen our understanding of its fundamental electronic structural characteristics, offering guidance for the design and development of novel CeO$_2$-based materials.


---
# MOFChecker: An algorithm for Validating and Correcting Metal-Organic Framework (MOF) Structures

## MOFChecker: 一种用于验证和校正金属有机框架 (MOF) 结构的算法

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-bh607?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Berend, Smit

Metal-organic frameworks are promising porous materials for several applications like gas adsorption, separation, transportation, and photocatalyst, but their large-scale computational screening requires high-quality, computation-ready structural data. Existing databases often contain errors due to experimental limitations, including inaccurately determined hydrogen positions, atomic overlaps, and missing components. We introduce MOFChecker to address these issues, providing tools for duplicate detection, geometric and charge error checking, and structure correction. Errors are systematically corrected through atomic adjustments on structures in the database, including deleting duplicated structures and adding missing hydrogen atoms, counterions, and linkers. Evaluation of established MOF databases, like the CoRE2014 database, indicates that 38% of structures contain significant errors, highlighting the importance of MOFChecker in ensuring accurate structural data for subsequent density functional theory (DFT) optimizations and computational studies. This work aims to enhance the reliability of MOF databases for high-throughput screening and practical applications.

