# Local doping of an oxide semiconductor by voltage-driven splitting of anti-Frenkel defects

## 通过反Frenkel缺陷的电压驱动分裂对氧化物半导体进行局部掺杂

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.07947

**Authors:** Jiali He, Ursula Ludacka, Kasper A. Hunnestad, Didrik R. Sm{\aa}br{\aa}ten, Konstantin Shapovalov, Per Erik Vullum, Constantinos Hatzoglou, Donald M. Evans, Erik D. Roede, Zewu Yan, Edith Bourret, Sverre M. Selbach, David Gao, Jaakko Akola, Dennis Meier

arXiv:2502.07947v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Layered oxides exhibit high ionic mobility and chemical flexibility, attracting interest as cathode materials for lithium-ion batteries and the pairing of hydrogen production and carbon capture. Recently, layered oxides emerged as highly tunable semiconductors. For example, by introducing anti-Frenkel defects, the electronic hopping conductance in hexagonal manganites was increased locally by orders of magnitude. Here, we demonstrate local acceptor and donor doping in Er(Mn,Ti)O$_3$, facilitated by the splitting of such anti-Frenkel defects under applied d.c. voltage. By combining density functional theory calculations, scanning probe microscopy, atom probe tomography, and scanning transmission electron microscopy, we show that the oxygen defects readily move through the layered crystal structure, leading to nano-sized interstitial-rich (p-type) and vacancy-rich (n-type) regions. The resulting pattern is comparable to dipolar npn-junctions and stable on the timescale of days. Our findings reveal the possibility of temporarily functionalizing oxide semiconductors at the nanoscale, giving additional opportunities for the field of oxide electronics and the development of transient electronics in general.


---
# Multicomponent one-dimensional quantum droplets across the mean-field stability regime

## 跨平均场稳定性区域的多组分一维量子液滴

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.08392

**Authors:** I. A. Englezos, P. Schmelcher, S. I. Mistakidis

arXiv:2502.08392v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The Lee-Huang-Yang (LHY) energy correction at the edge of the mean-field stability regime is known to give rise to beyond mean-field structures in a wide variety of systems. In this work, we analytically derive the LHY energy for two-, three- and four-component one-dimensional bosonic short-range interacting mixtures across the mean-field stability regime. For varying intercomponent attraction in the two-component setting, quantitative deviations from the original LHY treatment emerge being imprinted in the droplet saturation density and width. On the other hand, for repulsive interactions an unseen early onset of phase-separation occurs for both homonuclear and heteronuclear mixtures. Closed LHY expressions for the fully-symmetric three- and four-component mixtures, as well as for mixtures comprised of two identical components coupled to a third independent component are provided and found to host a plethora of mixed droplet states. Our results are expected to inspire future investigations in multicomponent systems for unveiling exotic self-bound states of matter and unravel their nonequilibrium quantum dynamics.


---
# On the crystalline environment of luminescent Tb$^{3+}$ ions embedded in indium tin oxide thin films: a DFT and Crystal field analysis assessment

## 铟锡氧化物薄膜中嵌入的发光Tb $^{ 3 }$ 离子的结晶环境: DFT和晶体场分析评估

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.08517

**Authors:** E. Serquen, K. Liz\'arraga, L. A. Enrique, F. Bravo, S. Mishra, P. LLontop, P. Venezuela, L. R. Tessler, J. A. Guerra

arXiv:2502.08517v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We assess the local symmetry and crystal environment of trivalent terbium ions embedded in an indium tin oxide (ITO) matrix with bixbyite structure. The \mbox{Tb$^{3+}$} ions tend to substitute \mbox{In$^{3+}$} ions in two different cationic sites ($b$ and $d$). Density Functional Theory (DFT) calculations suggest that the \mbox{Tb$^{3+}$} ions are mainly located at $C_2$ symmetry sites relaxing selection rules and enabling electric dipole transitions, with the $^5\text{D}_4\rightarrow\leftindex^7{\text{F}}_2$ transition being the most intense, providing a red color to the light emission. Photoluminescence emission spectra under UV excitation at \qty{83}{\kelvin} revealed 30 intra-4$f$ transitions, which were assigned to the $\leftindex^7{\text{F}}_J$ ground multiplet of the \mbox{Tb$^{3+}$} ion. Crystal-field analysis shows a strong alignment between calculated and observed energy levels, yielding a standard deviation of $\sigma=\qty{15.1}{\centi\per\metre}$. We believe these results can help to understand the activation mechanisms of \mbox{Tb$^{3+}$} luminescent centers in transparent conductive oxides, as well as the potential to modulate \mbox{Tb$^{3+}$} emission color through its crystalline environment.


---
# Improved Calculation of Acoustic Deformation Potentials from First Principles

## 从第一性原理改进声变形势的计算

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.08538

**Authors:** Patrick Williams, Angela Dyson

arXiv:2502.08538v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Using density functional theory (DFT) and density functional perturbation theory (DFPT), the band structure, phonon dispersion and electron phonon coupling matrix were calculated for silicon (Si), diamond and cubic boron nitride (cBN). From these, the acoustic deformation potential was calculated for multiple angles between the electron and phonon wave vectors and analytic expressions for the longitudinal and acoustic modes were fit to find an average deformation potential. The ability to calculate the deformation potential from first principles allows for the scattering rates to be determined without the use of lengthy empirical methods. For Si, the numerically calculated deformation potentials are in excellent agreement with what is seen in the literature. On the other hand, the deformation potentials calculated for diamond were found to be larger than what has been seen previously, however previous calculations of transport parameters in diamond report a large range of values for scattering parameters which may be due to assumptions made in each model. Excellent agreement was also seen between the value calculated for cBN and the literature, however there are no experimental results for cBN and so this value is compared against an estimate. This shows that scattering parameters can be calculated via first principles for materials with sparse experimental data, which in turn allows for increased confidence in the output of charge transport simulations of new and emerging materials.


---
# Phenothiazine-Based Self-Assembled Monolayer with Thiophene Head Groups Minimizes Buried Interface Losses in Tin Perovskite Solar Cells

## 基于吩噻嗪的具有噻吩头基的自组装单层可最大程度地减少锡钙钛矿太阳能电池中的掩埋界面损失

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.08579

**Authors:** Valerio Stacchini, Madineh Rastgoo, Mantas Mar\v{c}inskas, Chiara Frasca, Kazuki Morita, Lennart Frohloff, Antonella Treglia, Orestis Karalis, Vytautas Getautis, Annamaria Petrozza, Norbert Koch, Hannes Hempel, Tadas Malinauskas, Antonio Abate, Artem Musiienko

arXiv:2502.08579v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Self-assembled monolayers (SAMs) have revolutionized the fabrication of lead-based perovskite solar cells, but they remain underexplored in tin perovskite systems. PEDOT is the material of choice for hole-selective layers in tin perovskite solar cells (TPSCs), but presents challenges for both performance and stability. MeO-2PACz, the only SAM reported for Sn perovskites, enables device fabrication but consistently underperforms when compared to PEDOT. In this work, we identify that MeO-2PACz's limitations arise from excessively strong interactions with perovskite surface and poor lattice matching, leading to poor interface quality. To overcome these issues, we design, synthesize, and characterize a novel SAM-forming molecule called Th-2EPT. Th-2EPT optimizes coordination strength and improves lattice compatibility, contributing to the creation of a high-quality buried interface and dramatically suppressing non-radiative recombination. We used Density Functional Theory (DFT) to evaluate coordination strength and lattice compatibility, complemented by nanosecond-resolution optical characterization techniques to confirm significantly reduced interfacial recombination and enhanced carrier lifetimes in Th-2EPT-Perovskite films. With Th-2EPT, we demonstrated the first SAM-based tin perovskite solar cells to outperform PEDOT-based devices, delivering a record power conversion efficiency (PCE) of 8.2% with a DMSO-free solvent system.


---
# Strong coupling and dark modes in the motion of a pair of levitated nanoparticles

## 一对悬浮纳米粒子运动中的强耦合和暗模

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.08563

**Authors:** Antonio Pontin, Quentin Deplano, Andrea Ranfagni, Francesco Marino, Francesco Marin

arXiv:2502.08563v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We experimentally investigate a system composed of two levitating nanospheres whose motions are indirectly coupled via coherent scattering in a single optical cavity mode. The nanospheres are loaded into a double longitudinal tweezer created with two lasers at different wavelengths, where chromatic aberration leads to the formation of two separate trapping sites. We achieve strong coupling between each pair of modes in the transverse plane of the tweezer, as demonstrated by the avoided crossings observed when tuning the eigenfrequencies of the motion of one nanosphere by varying its optical potential depth. Remarkably, we show the emergence of dark modes in the overall coupled motion. The dynamics can be described in terms of spin-1/2 matrices, and the observed features are ubiquitous in a variety of classical and quantum systems. As such, our experiment will allow us to explore the classical analog of typically quantum dynamics, and in further developments to investigate the transition to the quantum domain by lowering the decoherence rate and creating stationary entanglement, as well as implementing non-stationary protocols.


---
# Building Neutron Stars with the MUSES Calculation Engine

## 使用MUSES计算引擎构建中子星

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.07902

**Authors:** Mateus Reinke Pelicer, Nikolas Cruz-Camacho, Carlos Conde, David Friedenberg, Satyajit Roy, Ziyuan Zhang, T. Andrew Manning, Mark G. Alford, Alexander Clevinger, Joaquin Grefa, Roland Haas, Alexander Haber, Mauricio Hippert, Jeremy W. Holt, Johannes Jahan, Micheal Kahangirwe, Rajesh Kumar, Jeffrey Peterson, Hitansh Shah, Andrew W. Steiner, Hung Tan, Yumu Yang, Volodymyr Vovchenko, Veronica Dexheimer, Jorge Noronha, Jaquelyn Noronha-Hostler, Claudia Ratti, Nicol\'as Yunes

arXiv:2502.07902v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Exploring the equation of state of dense matter is an essential part of interpreting the observable properties of neutron stars. We present here the first results for dense matter in the zero-temperature limit generated by the MUSES Calculation Engine, a composable workflow management system that orchestrates calculation and data processing stages comprising a collection of software modules designed within the MUSES framework. The modules presented in this work calculate equations of state using algorithms spanning three different theories/models: (1) Crust Density Functional Theory, valid starting at low densities, (2) Chiral Effective Field Theory, valid around saturation density, and (3) the Chiral Mean Field model, valid beyond saturation density. Lepton contributions are added through the Lepton module to each equation of state, ensuring charge neutrality and the possibility of $\beta$-equilibrium. Using the Synthesis module, we match the three equations of state using different thermodynamic variables and different methods. We then couple the complete equation of state to a novel full-general-relativity solver (QLIMR) module that calculates neutron star properties. We find that the matching performed using different thermodynamic variables affects differently the range obtained for neutron star masses and radii (although never beyond a few percent difference). We also investigate the universality of equation of state-independent relations for our matched stars. Finally, for the first time, we use the Flavor Equilibration module to estimate bulk viscosity and flavor relaxation charge fraction and rates (at low temperature) for Chiral Effective Field Theory and the Chiral Mean Field model.


---
# Multicomponent one-dimensional quantum droplets across the mean-field stability regime

## 跨平均场稳定性区域的多组分一维量子液滴

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.08392

**Authors:** I. A. Englezos, P. Schmelcher, S. I. Mistakidis

arXiv:2502.08392v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: The Lee-Huang-Yang (LHY) energy correction at the edge of the mean-field stability regime is known to give rise to beyond mean-field structures in a wide variety of systems. In this work, we analytically derive the LHY energy for two-, three- and four-component one-dimensional bosonic short-range interacting mixtures across the mean-field stability regime. For varying intercomponent attraction in the two-component setting, quantitative deviations from the original LHY treatment emerge being imprinted in the droplet saturation density and width. On the other hand, for repulsive interactions an unseen early onset of phase-separation occurs for both homonuclear and heteronuclear mixtures. Closed LHY expressions for the fully-symmetric three- and four-component mixtures, as well as for mixtures comprised of two identical components coupled to a third independent component are provided and found to host a plethora of mixed droplet states. Our results are expected to inspire future investigations in multicomponent systems for unveiling exotic self-bound states of matter and unravel their nonequilibrium quantum dynamics.


---
# On the crystalline environment of luminescent Tb$^{3+}$ ions embedded in indium tin oxide thin films: a DFT and Crystal field analysis assessment

## 铟锡氧化物薄膜中嵌入的发光Tb $^{ 3 }$ 离子的结晶环境: DFT和晶体场分析评估

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.08517

**Authors:** E. Serquen, K. Liz\'arraga, L. A. Enrique, F. Bravo, S. Mishra, P. LLontop, P. Venezuela, L. R. Tessler, J. A. Guerra

arXiv:2502.08517v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We assess the local symmetry and crystal environment of trivalent terbium ions embedded in an indium tin oxide (ITO) matrix with bixbyite structure. The \mbox{Tb$^{3+}$} ions tend to substitute \mbox{In$^{3+}$} ions in two different cationic sites ($b$ and $d$). Density Functional Theory (DFT) calculations suggest that the \mbox{Tb$^{3+}$} ions are mainly located at $C_2$ symmetry sites relaxing selection rules and enabling electric dipole transitions, with the $^5\text{D}_4\rightarrow\leftindex^7{\text{F}}_2$ transition being the most intense, providing a red color to the light emission. Photoluminescence emission spectra under UV excitation at \qty{83}{\kelvin} revealed 30 intra-4$f$ transitions, which were assigned to the $\leftindex^7{\text{F}}_J$ ground multiplet of the \mbox{Tb$^{3+}$} ion. Crystal-field analysis shows a strong alignment between calculated and observed energy levels, yielding a standard deviation of $\sigma=\qty{15.1}{\centi\per\metre}$. We believe these results can help to understand the activation mechanisms of \mbox{Tb$^{3+}$} luminescent centers in transparent conductive oxides, as well as the potential to modulate \mbox{Tb$^{3+}$} emission color through its crystalline environment.


---
# Multi-objective evolutionary strategy for improving semiempirical  Hamiltonians in the study of enzymatic reactions at the QM/MM level of theory

## 在QM/MM理论水平上研究酶促反应的改进半经验哈密顿量的多目标进化策略

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-pvztk?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Iñaki, Tuñón

Quantum mechanics/molecular mechanics (QM/MM) simulations are crucial for understanding enzymatic reactions, but their accuracy depends heavily on the quantum-mechanical method used. Semiempirical methods offer computational efficiency but often struggle with accuracy in complex systems. This work presents a novel multi-objective evolutionary strategy for optimizing semiempirical Hamiltonians, specifically designed to enhance their performance in enzymatic QM/MM simulations while remaining broadly applicable to condensed-phase systems. Our methodology combines automated parameter optimization, targeting \textit{ab initio} or density functional theory (DFT)-reference potential energy surfaces, atomic charges, and gradients, with comprehensive validation through minimum free energy path (MFEP) calculations. To demonstrate its effectiveness, we applied our approach to improve the GFN2-xTB Hamiltonian using two enzymatic systems that involve hydride transfer reactions where the activation energy barrier is severely underestimated: Crotonyl-CoA carboxylase/reductase (CCR) and dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR). The optimized parameters showed significant improvements in reproducing potential and free energy surfaces, closely matching higher-level DFT calculations. Through an efficient two-stage optimization process, we first developed parameters for CCR using reaction path data, then refined these parameters for DHFR by incorporating a targeted set of additional training geometries. This strategic approach minimized the computational cost while achieving accurate descriptions of both systems, as validated through QM/MM simulations using the Adaptive String Method (ASM). Our method represents an efficient approach for optimizing semiempirical methods to study larger systems and longer timescales, with potential applications in enzymatic reaction mechanisms studies, drug design, and enzyme engineering.


---
# Enhancing Metal–Support Interactions of Ru Catalysts via Relaxation of Oxygen Vacancies for Hydrogen Production

## 通过弛豫氧空位来增强Ru催化剂的金属-载体相互作用以产生氢

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-g62qh?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Dongmok, Whang

The stability of Ru-based catalysts under harsh electrochemical conditions is a critical challenge limiting their practical application in energy conversion systems. In this study, Ru catalysts supported on ZrO2-x, CeO2-x, and ZrCeO2-x were synthesized via pyrolysis of metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) and systematically evaluated to elucidate the role of support interactions on catalytic performance and durability. Advanced characterization techniques, including HR-TEM, XRD, XPS, and EXAFS, revealed that Ru-ZrCeO2-x exhibited superior structural stability compared to Ru-ZrO2-x and Ru-CeO2-x, particularly under high-potential sweep (HPS) conditions. The incorporation of Ce into ZrO2-x was shown to stabilize oxygen vacancies and enhance the interaction between Ru catalyst and the support, thereby mitigating catalyst degradation. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations further confirmed that Ce doping decreases formation energy of the oxygen vacancy, providing a thermodynamically favorable environment for Ru stabilization. This work demonstrates the promise of ZrCeO2-x as a robust support material for Ru-based catalysts, advancing their potential for durable and efficient energy applications.


---
# Impact of octahedral aluminium sites on guest molecule adsorption in zeolites: A computational study of 5-fluorouracil in zeolite FAU

## 八面体铝位点对沸石中客体分子吸附的影响: FAU沸石中5-氟尿嘧啶的计算研究

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-bkwp1?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Michael, Fischer

Many aluminosilicate zeolites contain octahedral aluminium sites, which may occur as extra-framework or framework-associated sites. Due to the Lewis acidity of these sites, their impact on catalytic properties has been investigated frequently. Comparatively less emphasis has been placed on their role in adsorption, despite evidence for an irreversible binding of some guest molecules like the anticancer drug 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) to octahedral Al atoms. In the present study, dispersion-corrected density functional theory (DFT) calculations and DFT-based ab initio molecular dynamics simulations (AIMD) are employed to investigate the adsorption of 5-FU at a framework-associated octahedral Al site in zeolite FAU. The calculations show that 5-FU remains coordinated to the Al atom at room temperature and in the presence of water. In contrast, 5-FU molecules adsorbed at framework protons are quickly displaced by water molecules. It is thus demonstrated that octahedral Al atoms will negatively affect the release of 5-FU from zeolite hosts in drug delivery applications. A comparison of DFT-calculated infrared (IR) spectra to literature data provides evidence that Al-coordinated 5 FU molecules were indeed present in previously investigated samples.


---
# Scalable route to N-trifluoromethyl amides via radical trifluoromethylamination

## 通过自由基三氟甲基胺化获得N-三氟甲基酰胺的可扩展路线

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-4775141/latest

N-CF3 amides are promising targets for medicinal and agrochemistry. However, they have not yet been practically applied because of the limitations of their synthetic method. Traditional amidation can not be utilized to prepare N-CF3 amides due to the unavailability of corresponding N-CF3 amines. The development of effective alternative route has become a research focus in this field. We describe here a conceptually novel trifluoromethylamination method, in which the reactivity of trifluoromethylamidyl radicals derived from N-(N-CF3 imidoyloxy) pyridinium salts can be harnessed for the rapid construction of diverse N-CF3 amides. Such stable imidoyloxy pyridinium salts are conveniently prepared by the imidoylation of pyridine-N-oxide with the in situ formed N-CF3 nitrilium ions. The ensuing pyridinium fragmentation under photoredox catalysis liberates trifluoromethylimidoyloxy radical, which can efficiently participate in the trifluoromethylaminations of (hetero)arenes, alkenes and functionalized alkenes, alkynes, silylenol ethers, and isocyanides in the form of trifluoromethylamidyl radical through imidoyloxy-amidyl resonance. Density functional theory calculations indicate that although initial charge distribution and spin density of key radical intermediates in the optimized structure are not conducive to the reaction at the N-site, the trifluoromethylamidyl radical can be dynamically activated when approaching the reactant, thereby selectively serves as an effective radical aminating reagent for subsequent C-N coupling reactions. The tolerance of the reaction to steric and electronic factors has allowed for the synthesis of the most diverse set of N-CF3 amides and their cyclic derivatives.

