# Accelerating Dissipative State Preparation with Adaptive Open Quantum Dynamics

## 用自适应开放量子动力学加速耗散态制备

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevLett.134.050603

**Authors:** Andrew Pocklington and Aashish A. Clerk

Author(s): Andrew Pocklington and Aashish A. Clerk<br /><p>A wide variety of dissipative state preparation schemes suffer from a basic time-entanglement tradeoff: the more entangled the steady state, the slower the relaxation to the steady state. Here, we show how a minimal kind of adaptive dynamics can be used to completely circumvent this tradeoff, and al…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. Lett. 134, 050603] Published Thu Feb 06, 2025


---
# Kohn-Sham-Proca equations for ultrafast exciton dynamics

## 超快激子动力学的kohn-sham-proca方程

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.111.L060302

**Authors:** J. K. Dewhurst, D. Gill, S. Shallcross, and S. Sharma

Author(s): J. K. Dewhurst, D. Gill, S. Shallcross, and S. Sharma<br /><p>A longstanding problem in time-dependent density functional theory has been the absence of a functional able to capture excitonic physics under laser pump conditions. Here we introduce a scheme of coupled Kohn-Sham and Proca equations in a pump-probe setup that we show (i) produces linear-response e…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 111, L060302] Published Thu Feb 06, 2025


---
# Electronic properties and transport in metal/2D material/metal vertical junctions

## 金属/二维材料/金属垂直结中的电子性质和输运

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.03318

**Authors:** Ga\"elle Bigeard, Zineb Kerrami, Fran\c{c}ois Triozon, Alessandro Cresti

arXiv:2502.03318v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We simulate the electronic and transport properties of metal/two-dimensional material/metal vertical heterostructures, with a focus on graphene, hexagonal boron nitride and two phases of molybdenum diselenide. Using density functional theory and non-equilibrium Green's function, we assess how stacking configurations and material thickness impact important properties, such as density of states, potential barriers and conductivity. For monolayers, strong orbital hybridization with the metallic electrodes significantly alters the electronic characteristics, with the formation of states within the gap of the semiconducting 2D materials. Trilayers reveal the critical role of interlayer coupling, where the middle layer retains its intrinsic properties, thus influencing the overall conductivity. Our findings highlight the potential for customized multilayer designs to optimize electronic device performance based on two-dimensional materials.


---
# Atomic-Scale Observation of Moire potential in Twisted Hexagonal Boron Nitride Layers by Electron Microscopy

## 通过电子显微镜观察扭曲的六方氮化硼层中的莫尔电位

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.07653

**Authors:** Rina Mishima, Takuro Nagai, Hiroyo Segawa, Masahiro Ehara, Takashi Uchino

arXiv:2411.07653v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Moire superlattices (MSLs) are an emerging class of two-dimensional functional materials whose electronic states can be tuned by the twist angle between two van der Waals layers and/or the relative placement of the layers. The intriguing properties of MSLs are closely correlated to the moir\'e potential, which is the electrostatic potential induced by interlayer coupling. Intensive efforts have been made to understand the nature and distribution of the moire potential by using various experimental and theoretical techniques. However, the experimental observation of the moir\'e potential is still challenging because of the possible presence of the surface and/or interlayer contaminants. In this work, we develop a method to obtain hexagonal boron nitride (hBN) nanolayers (with or without twist) using a specially designed chemical exfoliation technique. The resulting hBN nanolayers are atomically clean and strain free, hence providing ideal MSLs for the investigation of their moir\'e potential. Aberration-corrected high resolution transmission electron microscopy measurements on the twisted hBN nanolayers allow us to observe moir\'e diffraction spots in Fourier space. Then, the moire potential is reconstructed by the inverse fast Fourier transform of the moire diffraction spots. It has been revealed that the local interlayer atomic overlap plays a decisive role in determining the periodicity and distribution of the moir\'e potential, as supported by density functional theory calculations. This work not only provides a general strategy to observe the moire potential in MSLs, but it also expands the application of electron microscopy to the further study of MSLs with atomic resolution.


---
# Interactive Multiscale Modeling to Bridge Atomic Properties and Electrochemical Performance in Li-CO$_2$ Battery Design

## Li-co $_2 $ 电池设计中用于桥接原子性质和电化学性能的交互式多尺度建模

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.10954

**Authors:** Mohammed Lemaalem, Selva Chandrasekaran Selvaraj, Ilias Papailias, Naveen K. Dandu, Arash Namaeighasemi, Larry A. Curtiss, Amin Salehi-Khojin, Anh T. Ngo

arXiv:2501.10954v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Li-CO$_2$ batteries show promise as energy storage solutions, offering high theoretical energy density and CO$_2$ fixation. Their performance relies on the formation and decomposition of Li$_2$CO$_3$/C during discharge and charge cycles, respectively. We used a multiscale modeling framework that integrates Density Functional Theory (DFT), Ab-Initio Molecular Dynamics (AIMD), classical Molecular Dynamics (MD), and Finite Element Analysis (FEA) to investigate atomic and cell-level properties. The Li-CO$_2$ battery consists of a lithium metal anode, an ionic liquid electrolyte, and a carbon cloth porous cathode with a Sb$_{0.67}$Bi$_{1.33}$Te$_3$ catalyst. DFT and AIMD determined the electrical conductivities of Sb$_{0.67}$Bi$_{1.33}$Te$_3$ and Li$_2$CO$_3$ using the Kubo-Greenwood formalism and studied the CO$_2$ reduction mechanism on the cathode catalyst. MD simulations calculated the CO$_2$ diffusion coefficient, Li$^+$ transference number, ionic conductivity, and Li$^+$ solvation structure. The FEA model, incorporating results from atomistic simulations, reproduced experimental voltage-capacity profiles at 1 mA/cm$^2$ and revealed spatio-temporal variations in Li$_2$CO$_3$/C deposition, porosity, and CO$_2$ concentration dependence on discharge rates in the cathode. Accordingly, Li$_2$CO$_3$ can form toroidal and thin film deposits, leading to dispersed and local porosity changes at 0.1 mA/cm$^2$ and 1 mA/cm$^2$, respectively. The capacity decreases exponentially from 81,570 mAh/g at 0.1 mA/cm$^2$ to 6,200 mAh/g at 1 mA/cm$^2$, due to pore clogging that limits CO$_2$ transport to the cathode interior. Therefore, the performance of Li-CO$_2$ batteries can be significantly improved by enhancing CO$_2$ transport, regulating Li$_2$CO$_3$ deposition, and optimizing cathode architecture.


---
# Digitized Counterdiabatic Quantum Algorithms for Logistics Scheduling

## 用于物流调度的数字化反绝热量子算法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.15707

**Authors:** Archismita Dalal, Iraitz Montalban, Narendra N. Hegade, Alejandro Gomez Cadavid, Enrique Solano, Abhishek Awasthi, Davide Vodola, Caitlin Jones, Horst Weiss, Gernot F\"uchsel

arXiv:2405.15707v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: We study a job shop scheduling problem for an automatized robot in a high-throughput laboratory and a travelling salesperson problem with recently proposed digitized counterdiabatic quantum optimization (DCQO)algorithms. In DCQO, we find the solution of an optimization problem via an adiabatic quantum dynamics, which is accelerated with counterdiabatic protocols. Thereafter, we digitize the global unitary to encode it in a digital quantum computer. For the job-shop scheduling problem, we aim at finding the optimal schedule for a robot executing a number of tasks under specific constraints, such that the total execution time of the process is minimized. For the traveling salesperson problem, the goal is to find the path that covers all cities and is associated with the shortest traveling distance. We consider both hybrid and pure versions of DCQO algorithms and benchmark the performance against digitized quantum annealing and the quantum approximate optimization algorithm (QAOA). In comparison to QAOA, the DCQO solution is improved by several orders of magnitude in success probability using the same number of two-qubit gates. Moreover, we implement our algorithms on cloud-based superconducting and trapped-ion quantum processors. Our results demonstrate that circuit compression using counterdiabatic protocols is amenable to current NISQ hardware and can solve logistics scheduling problems, where other digital quantum algorithms show insufficient performance.


---
# Microscopic Theory of Polariton Group Velocity Renormalization

## 极化子群速度重整化的微观理论

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.08288

**Authors:** Wenxiang Ying, Benjamin X. K. Chng, Milan Delor, Pengfei Huo

arXiv:2411.08288v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Cavity exciton-polaritons exhibit ballistic transport and can achieve a distance of 100 $\mu $m in one picosecond. This ballistic transport significantly enhances mobility compared to that of bare excitons, which often move diffusively and become the bottleneck for energy conversion and transfer devices. Despite being robustly reproduced in experiments and simulations, there is no comprehensive microscopic theory addressing the group velocity of polariton transport, and its renormalization due to phonon scattering while still preserving this ballistic behavior. In this work, we develop a microscopic theory to describe the group velocity renormalization using a finite-temperature Green's function approach. Utilizing the generalized Holstein-Tavis-Cummings Hamiltonian, we analytically derive an expression for the group velocity renormalization and find that it is caused by phonon-mediated transitions from the lower polariton (LP) states to the dark states, then scattering from dark states back to LP. The dark states do not have to be populated in this process, serving as the virtual state for super-exchange (especially true for a large light-matter detuning). The theory predicts that the magnitude of group velocity renormalization scales linearly with the phonon bath reorganization energy under weak coupling conditions (perturbative regime for exciton-phonon coupling) and also linearly depends on the temperature in the high-temperature regime. These predictions are numerically verified using quantum dynamics simulations, demonstrating quantitative agreement. Our findings provide theoretical insights and a predictive analytical framework that advance the understanding and design of cavity-modified semiconductors and molecular ensembles, opening new avenues for engineered polaritonic devices.


---
# Maxwell-Vlasov-Uehling-Uhlenbeck (VUU) Simulation for Coupled Laser-Electron Dynamics in a Metal Irradiated by Ultrashort Intense Laser Pulses

## Maxwell-vlasov-uehlling-Uhlenbeck (VUU) 模拟，用于在超短强激光脉冲辐照的金属中耦合激光-电子动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.02865

**Authors:** Mizuki Tani, Tomohito Otobe, Yasushi Shinohara, Kenichi L. Ishikawa

arXiv:2502.02865v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The description of electron-electron scattering presents challenges in the microscopic modeling of the interaction of ultrashort intense laser pulses with solids. We extend the semiclassical approach based on the Vlasov equation [Phys. Rev. B 104, 075157(2021)] to account for dynamic electron-electron scattering by introducing the Vlasov-Uehling-Uhlenbeck (VUU) equation. We further couple the VUU equation with Maxwell's equations to describe the laser pulse propagation. We apply the present approach to simulate laser-electron interactions in bulk and thin-film aluminum, focusing on energy absorption and transport. Our calculation results reveal that electron-electron scattering affects energy absorption more significantly under p-polarization than under s-polarization, highlighting the role of the non-uniform surface potential. Our simulations also show that the energy transport extends beyond the optical penetration depth, which is consistent with observations in previous laser ablation experiments. The developed Maxwell-VUU approach is expected to advance the understanding of intense laser-material interactions not only as a cost-effective alternative to the time-dependent density functional theory (TDDFT), but also by incorporating fermionic two-body collisions whose description is limited in TDDFT.


---
# Coordination Number Dependence of Cysteine Binding to Nanostructured Gold

## 半胱氨酸与纳米结构金结合的配位数依赖性

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-j3nsp?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Chao-Ming (Elvis), Ting

The interaction of cysteine and related aminoacids with metal substrates has applications in several fields of science, technology and health. Despite widespread interest in these systems, the relationship between thiol adsorption and surface coarsening, including the effects of sur- face adatoms and other defect sites, has not been systematically addressed. Here, the effect of binding site unsaturation on the adsorption strength of cysteine on gold substrates is examined using density functional theory. Adsorption sites with a full range of in-surface coordination numbers are generated using surface adatoms or pitting structure. The configurational space of the adsorbate on the nanostructured surface is sampled extensively using Born-Oppenheimer molecular dynamics simulation. Our results indicate that binding strength is primarily deter- mined by a combination of surface site reactivity to the mercapto group and the availablity of additional sites for amino group coordination. The study aims to further our understanding of mercapto-aminoacid binding to defect substrates and low-coordinated nanoparticle sites, and to provide a basis for the development of coordination-dependent force fields that may be used in classical simulations of these systems.


---
# Epitaxial domain of PdO formed on Sr3Ti2O7 effective as an environmental catalyst

## 在Sr3Ti2O7上形成的PdO外延域可作为环境催化剂

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-ddp2p?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Tsunehiro, Tanaka

To strategically realize the epitaxial growth of heterogeneous catalysts, it is necessary to use highly crystalline ceramic materials, which is a major disadvantage of catalyst materials in terms of surface area. Therefore, it is difficult to intentionally apply epitaxial growth in the design of catalyst materials. Against this background, this study reveals that a distorted PdO is epitaxially bonded to the ab surface of Sr3Ti2O7, which is a ceramic material synthesized by calcination at 1273 K, by loading a very small amount of a Pd species on it. Density functional theory calculations suggest that the charge-transfer from Sr3Ti2O7 to PdO induces an epitaxial junction to produce a structural fluctuation of PdO. Pd/Sr3Ti2O7 catalyst with a unique heterojunction exhibits an excellent catalytic activity for the purification of automotive exhaust gases. In addition, the Pd/Sr3Ti2O7 catalyst is more active than the benchmark Pd/Al2O3 catalyst despite its extremely small surface area. This study demonstrates that ceramic materials can be used as catalyst materials by precisely designing their heterojunctions.


---
# Kinetic and Thermodynamic Models for the Formation of Furan in Thermally Processed Foods: A Theoretical and Computational Study

## 热加工食品中呋喃形成的动力学和热力学模型: 理论和计算研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5936500/latest

The formation of furan, a known carcinogen, in thermally processed foods represent a significant human health risk. Therefore, a clear mechanistic understanding of the transformation process of some common food components to yield furan/ furan-derivatives, is critical for the development of mitigation efforts or the prevention of furan formation in thermally processed foods. Therefore, in this study, density functional theoretical methods are applied in probing the possibility of furan formation from acetaldehyde, glycolaldehyde and aldotetrose on a step-by-step basis. The thermodynamic parameters associated with the transformation steps in the formation of furan from aldotetrose reveal an overall exergonic process, limited by its second step where &Delta;G&amp;Dagger;25 = 327.61 kJ mol&amp;minus;&amp;thinsp;1. Furan is also generated from the reaction of acetaldehyde with glycolaldehyde via a complex multi-step process, limited by its first step where &Delta;G&amp;Dagger;25 = 283 kJ mol&amp;minus;&amp;thinsp;1. Based on these findings, kinetic models governing the formation of furan/ furan derivatives are proposed.

