# First-principle study of surface structure estimation in $L1_0$-FePd(001)/graphene heterojunction

## $ L1_0 $-FePd(001)/石墨烯异质结表面结构估计的第一性原理研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.00328

**Authors:** Ryusuke Endo, Naohiro Matsumoto, Samuel Vergara, Masaki Kobayashi, Hikari Shinya, Hiroshi Naganuma, Tomoya Ono, Mitsuharu Uemoto

arXiv:2502.00328v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: In this study, we present a theoretical and computational investigation of the atomic-scale structure of the heterointerface formed between the (001) surface of $L1_0$-ordered iron palladium (FePd) alloy and graphene (Gr), namely, $L1_0$-FePd(001)/Gr. Using the density functional theory (DFT) calculations, we demonstrate that the topmost surface layer consisting of Pd (Pd-terminated surface) becomes more energetically stable than Fe, and Pd-terminated surfaces are not conducive to Gr adsorption. On the other hand, under oxygen atmosphere conditions, our calculation suggests the presence of Fe-terminated surfaces with Gr-covered structures reproducing recent experimental observations; besides, the presence of Fe-O bonds by the surface oxidization is also consistent with X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy. These findings are crucial for understanding the fabrication processes of interfaces in Fe-based $L1_0$ alloy materials.


---
# Dependence of the energy and orbital structure of local states in CuO monolayer on Coulomb parameters

## CuO单层中局域态的能量和轨道结构对库仑参数的依赖性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.01483

**Authors:** I. A. Makarov (Kirensky Institute of Physics, Federal Research Center KSC SB RAS, Russia, Krasnoyarsk), M. M. Korshunov (Kirensky Institute of Physics, Federal Research Center KSC SB RAS, Russia, Krasnoyarsk), S. G. Ovchinnikov (Kirensky Institute of Physics, Federal Research Center KSC SB RAS, Russia, Krasnoyarsk)

arXiv:2502.01483v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The dependence of the energies and orbital structure of local states in the CuO monolayer on intra- and interatomic Coulomb interactions on copper and oxygen orbitals is studied. The electronic system is described within the eight-band p-d model in the hole representation with the on-site energies and hopping integrals obtained using density functional theory. CuO cluster multiparticle eigenstates are calculated using exact diagonalization. The difference between the energy dependencies on the Coulomb parameters for the states with the predominant probability density on the d-orbital and the states in which hole occupies p-orbitals leads to crossover of d- and p-states. The ground single-hole and two-hole states which determine the electronic structure of the low-energy excitations have the character of d- or p-orbitals in the different regions of the Coulomb parameters space. The gap between the energies of the dispersionless quasiparticles forming the top of the valence band and conductivity band also have different values in these two regions. The magnitude of this gap and the orbital character of the local multiparticle states change sharply even with an insignificant change in the Coulomb interactions within the boundary region of parameters between the regions in which the local states are formed by the d- or p-orbitals.


---
# Grain Boundary Segregation and Embrittlement of Aluminum Binary Alloys from First Principles

## 从第一性原理研究铝二元合金的晶界偏析和脆化

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.01579

**Authors:** Nutth Tuchinda, Gregory B. Olson, Christopher A. Schuh

arXiv:2502.01579v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Grain boundary segregation controls properties of polycrystalline materials such as their susceptibility to intergranular cracking. It is of interest to engineer alloy chemistry to enhance grain boundary cohesion to prevent intergranular failure. While there is collectively a large first-principles dataset for grain boundary embrittlement in multiple Al-based binary alloys, the methodologies used for the first principles calculations, as well as the analyzed fracture paths, are variable amongst studies. Here, we reevaluate and compute grain boundary segregation and embrittlement from all-electron first-principles for the {\Sigma}5[001](210) Al grain boundary. We explicitly evaluate multiple fracture paths, and provide a study case of the chemical trends of the preferred fracture paths across 69 binary Al alloys. The results suggest that neglecting certain low energy fracture paths can lead to errors of estimating embrittlement potency up to the order of 1 eV per solute atom, especially for multiple d-block transition metal solutes that are of engineering interest. The database calculated here also permits a comprehensive comparison between all-electron and pseudopotential methodologies. The effects of Hubbard U density functional theory on grain boundary segregation and embrittlement in Al(Sc) are found not to be significant in terms of the relative energetic calculations of grain boundaries and free surfaces (differences are of order 0.1 eV or less).


---
# How Can We Engineer Electronic Transitions Through Twisting and Stacking in TMDC Bilayers and Heterostructures? A First-Principles Approach

## 我们如何通过TMDC双层和异质结构中的扭曲和堆叠来设计电子转换？第一原则方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06096

**Authors:** Yu-Hsiu Lin, William P. Comaskey, Jose L. Mendoza-Cortes

arXiv:2405.06096v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Layered two-dimensional (2D) materials exhibit unique properties, expanding opportunities in material design. We investigate MX$_2$ transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDCs) (M = Mo, W; X = S, Se, Te) in homo- and heterobilayers with different stacking and twist angles. Twisted bilayers introduce Moir\'e patterns, significantly altering electronic properties. Using first-principles Density Functional Theory (DFT) with range-separated hybrid functionals, we examine 30 MX$_2$ combinations, revealing how stacking and composition influence stability and band gap energy (E$_g$). Notably, the MoTe$_2$/WSe$_2$ heterostructure with a 60\textdegree~shift maintains a direct band gap, highlighting its potential for applications. Homobilayers under low-strain conditions exhibit diverse stacking-dependent electronic behaviors, where MoS$_2$, WS$_2$, and WSe$_2$ transition between direct and indirect band gaps at specific twist angles. MoS$_2$ can even switch between semiconductor and metallic states. Critical twist angles (17.9\textdegree, 42.1\textdegree, 77.9\textdegree, and 102.1\textdegree) in twisted WS$_2$ and WSe$_2$ bilayers yield symmetric Moir\'e patterns with tunable band gaps. Our findings emphasize that controlling heterostructures and twist angles is a powerful strategy for engineering electronic properties, offering a pathway for next-generation materials.


---
# Unraveling-induced entanglement phase transition in diffusive trajectories of continuously monitored noninteracting fermionic systems

## 在连续监测的非相互作用费米子系统的扩散轨迹中解开诱导的纠缠相变

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.04869

**Authors:** Moritz Eissler, Igor Lesanovsky, Federico Carollo

arXiv:2406.04869v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: The competition between unitary quantum dynamics and dissipative stochastic effects, as emerging from continuous-monitoring processes, can culminate in measurement-induced phase transitions. Here, a many-body system abruptly passes, when exceeding a critical measurement rate, from a highly entangled phase to a low-entanglement one. We consider a different perspective on entanglement phase transitions and explore whether these can emerge when the measurement process itself is modified, while keeping the measurement rate fixed. To illustrate this idea, we consider a noninteracting fermionic system and focus on diffusive detection processes. Through extensive numerical simulations, we show that, upon varying a suitable \textit{unraveling parameter} -- interpolating between measurements of different quadrature operators -- the system displays a transition from a phase with area-law entanglement to one where entanglement scales logarithmically with the system size. Our findings may be relevant for tailoring quantum correlations in noisy quantum devices and for conceiving optimal classical simulation strategies.


---
# Dissecting van der Waals interactions with Density Functional Theory -- Wannier-basis approach

## 用密度泛函理论剖析范德华相互作用 -- Wannier基方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11658

**Authors:** Diem Thi-Xuan Dang, Dai-Nam Le, Lilia M. Woods

arXiv:2406.11658v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: A new scheme for the computation of dispersive interactions from first principles is presented. This cost-effective approach relies on a Wannier function representation compatible with density function theory descriptions. This is an electronic-based many-body method that captures the full electronic and optical response properties of the materials. It provides the foundation to discern van der Waals and induction energies as well as the role of anisotropy and different stacking patterns when computing dispersive interactions in systems. Calculated results for binding energies in benchmarked materials and layered materials, such as graphite, hBN, and MoS$_2$ give encouraging comparisons with available experimental data. Strategies for broadened computational descriptions of dispersive interactions are also discussed. Our investigation aims at stimulating new experimental studies to measure van der Waals energies in a wider range of materials, especially in layered systems.


---
# Quasi-aperiodic grain boundary phases of {\Sigma}5 tilt grain boundaries in refractory metals

## 难熔金属中 {\ Sigma}5倾斜晶界的准非周期性晶界相

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.15723

**Authors:** Enze Chen, Timofey Frolov

arXiv:2501.15723v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We report new quasi-aperiodic, ground-state structures and phase transitions in $\Sigma5$ tilt grain boundaries (GBs) in body-centered cubic (BCC) refractory metals Nb, Ta, Mo, and W. $\Sigma5$ tilt GBs have been extensively investigated over the past several decades, with their ground-state structure -- composed of kite-shaped structural units -- previously thought to be well understood. By performing a rigorous GB structure search that optimizes the number of atoms in the boundary core, we predict new quasi-aperiodic "split kite" phases analogous to those previously found in GBs in face-centered cubic metals. Our results suggest that complex aperiodic phases of GBs appear to be a general phenomenon. Density functional theory calculations yield similar GB energies and structures for kite and split kite phases in all BCC metals studied. Phase-contrast image simulations of split kites show better agreement with experimental observations, offering an alternative explanation for previous microscopy results and motivating future atomically resolved imaging of the GB structure.


---
# Dissecting van der Waals interactions with Density Functional Theory -- Wannier-basis approach

## 用密度泛函理论剖析范德华相互作用 -- Wannier基方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11658

**Authors:** Diem Thi-Xuan Dang, Dai-Nam Le, Lilia M. Woods

arXiv:2406.11658v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: A new scheme for the computation of dispersive interactions from first principles is presented. This cost-effective approach relies on a Wannier function representation compatible with density function theory descriptions. This is an electronic-based many-body method that captures the full electronic and optical response properties of the materials. It provides the foundation to discern van der Waals and induction energies as well as the role of anisotropy and different stacking patterns when computing dispersive interactions in systems. Calculated results for binding energies in benchmarked materials and layered materials, such as graphite, hBN, and MoS$_2$ give encouraging comparisons with available experimental data. Strategies for broadened computational descriptions of dispersive interactions are also discussed. Our investigation aims at stimulating new experimental studies to measure van der Waals energies in a wider range of materials, especially in layered systems.


---
# Stereoselective Generation and Use of α-Fluorovinyl Radicals via Mesolytic Cleavage of C(sp2)–S Bond of α-Fluorovinyl Sulfoximines

## 通过 α-氟乙烯基磺酰亚胺的C(sp2)-S键的介裂裂解产生和使用 α-氟乙烯基自由基的立体选择性

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-1kzz4?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Koji, Hirano

An unusual configurational stability of α-fluorovinyl radical holds significant potential to synthesize valuable monofluoroalkenes, bioisosteres of amides, in a stereoselective fashion. However, the lack of a suitable precursor for this radical, generated in a stereoselective manner, has hindered its application to the stereoselective synthesis of monofluoroalkenes. Herein, we report the stereoselective generation of the α-fluorovinyl radical, which reacts with disulfide to form α-fluorovinyl sulfides. This method hinges on two key reactions: stereoselective condensation of N-pivaloyl fluoromethyl sulfoximine with an aldehyde to form α-fluorovinyl sulfoximine, and substitution radical-nucleophilic unimolecular (SRN1)-type reaction involving the nontrivial mesolytic cleavage of the C(sp2)–S bond of the resulting α-fluorovinyl sulfoximines. The generation of the α-fluorovinyl radical was supported by density functional theory (DFT) calculation, the Arrhenius equation, and the stereospecificity of the substitution with retention of its original stereochemistry.


---
# Designing Molecular Qubits: Computational Insights into First-Row and Group 6 Transition Metal Complexes

## 设计分子量子位: 对第一行和第6族过渡金属配合物的计算见解

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-3tg1x?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Laura, Gagliardi

The discovery of novel molecular systems for quantum information processing remains a major challenge for advancing molecular qubit technology. In the realm of optically addressable systems, a previously synthesized and characterized Cr(IV) pseudo-tetrahedral complex, featuring four strongly donating o-tolyl ligands surrounding the chromium center, has demonstrated potential as a qubit candidate. This study proposes analogs of this complex through a metal substitution strategy, extending the investigation to new complexes. The new metal centers were selected from first-row and Group 6 transition metals.  Multiconfigurational methods such as the complete active space followed by second-order perturbation theory and multiconfiguration pair-density functional theory were utilized to calculate energy gaps between electronic states with different spins and zero-field splitting (ZFS). The results corroborate previous experimental findings for the Cr complex. Additionally, this study identifies a previously unsynthesized Ti(II) compound as a promising candidate for molecular qubits. This finding highlights the role of computational multireference methods in the rational design of qubit systems.

