# Distinct Charge and Spin Recovery Dynamics in a Photoexcited Mott Insulator

## 光激发Mott绝缘体中独特的电荷和自旋恢复动力学

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevLett.133.256501

**Authors:** Sankha Subhra Bakshi and Pinaki Majumdar

Author(s): Sankha Subhra Bakshi and Pinaki Majumdar<br /><p>Pump-probe response of the spin-orbit coupled Mott insulator ${\mathrm{Sr}}_{2}{\mathrm{IrO}}_{4}$ reveals a rapid creation of low-energy optical weight and suppression of three-dimensional magnetic order on laser pumping. Postpump there is a quick reduction of the optical weight but a very slow rec…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. Lett. 133, 256501] Published Mon Dec 16, 2024


---
# Proximate electronic and magnetic phase transitions in ${\mathrm{CaFe}}_{3}{\mathrm{O}}_{5}$

## $ {\ mathrm{CaFe }}_{ 3 }{\ mathrm{O }}_{ 5}$ 中的近似电子和磁性相变

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevMaterials.8.124408

**Authors:** Michael J. Milton, Branislav V. Hakala, Ka H. Hong, Maxim Avdeev, Chris D. Ling, Brendan J. Kennedy, Pascal Manuel, and J. Paul Attfield

Author(s): Michael J. Milton, Branislav V. Hakala, Ka H. Hong, Maxim Avdeev, Chris D. Ling, Brendan J. Kennedy, Pascal Manuel, and J. Paul Attfield<br /><p>Electronic phase separation in lightly doped ${\mathrm{CaFe}}_{3}{\mathrm{O}}_{5}$ has been investigated through a variable temperature powder neutron diffraction study of ${\mathrm{CaFe}}_{2.99}{M}_{0.01}{\mathrm{O}}_{5}$ ($M=\mathrm{Co}$, Mn) samples. This reveals a complex series of proximate pha…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. Materials 8, 124408] Published Mon Dec 16, 2024


---
# Dopant-induced modulation of ferroelectricity in perovskite nitride ${\mathrm{LaWN}}_{3}$

## 掺杂物对钙钛矿氮化物中铁电的调制 $ {\ mathrm{LaWN }}_{ 3}$

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevMaterials.8.124409

**Authors:** Harshvardhan Singh Deora and Awadhesh Narayan

Author(s): Harshvardhan Singh Deora and Awadhesh Narayan<br /><p>Perovskite nitrides are starting to be explored for their promising properties distinct from their oxide counterparts. Here, through first-principles density functional computations, we study the intricate relationship between ferroelectricity and metallicity in the ferroelectric nitride ${\mathrm{L…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. Materials 8, 124409] Published Mon Dec 16, 2024


---
# Magnetization fluctuations and magnetic after-effect probed via the anomalous Hall effect

## 通过反常霍尔效应探测磁化波动和磁后效应

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevResearch.6.043283

**Authors:** Nadine Nabben, Giacomo Sala, Ulrich Nowak, Matthias Krüger, and Sebastian T. B. Goennenwein

Author(s): Nadine Nabben, Giacomo Sala, Ulrich Nowak, Matthias Krüger, and Sebastian T. B. Goennenwein<br /><p>Taking advantage of the anomalous Hall effect, we electrically probe low-frequency magnetization fluctuations at room temperature in a thin ferromagnetic $\mathrm{Pt}/\mathrm{Co}/{\mathrm{AlO}}_{x}$ layer stack with perpendicular magnetic anisotropy. We observe a strong enhancement of the Hall volta…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. Research 6, 043283] Published Mon Dec 16, 2024


---
# High-field magnetic properties of the alternating ferromagnetic-antiferromagnetic spin-chain compound ${\mathrm{Cu}}_{2}$(OH)${}_{3}\mathrm{Br}$

## 交替铁磁-反铁磁自旋链化合物 ${\ mathrm{Cu }}_{ 2}$(OH)${}_{ 3}\ mathrm{Br}$ 的高场磁性

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.110.214421

**Authors:** K. Yu. Povarov, Y. Skourskii, J. Wosnitza, D. E. Graf, Z. Zhao, and S. A. Zvyagin

Author(s): K. Yu. Povarov, Y. Skourskii, J. Wosnitza, D. E. Graf, Z. Zhao, and S. A. Zvyagin<br /><p>We present comprehensive high magnetic field studies of the alternating weakly coupled ferro-antiferromagnetic (FM-AFM) spin-$1/2$ chain compound ${\mathrm{Cu}}_{2}$(${\mathrm{OH})}_{3}\mathrm{Br}$, with the structure of the natural mineral botallackite. Our measurements reveal a broad magnetization…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 110, 214421] Published Mon Dec 16, 2024


---
# Spin-3/2 nuclear magnetic resonance: Exact analytical solutions for aligned systems and implications for probing Fe-based superconductors

## 自旋3/2核磁共振: 对准系统的精确解析解及其对探测铁基超导体的意义

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.110.214422

**Authors:** Jaafar N. Ansari and Karen L. Sauer

Author(s): Jaafar N. Ansari and Karen L. Sauer<br /><p>The nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectrum of spin-3/2 nuclei in a static magnetic field aligned with one of the electric field gradient (EFG) principal axes is developed analytically, based on fictitious spin-1/2 formalism. Compact closed-form expressions for the eigenstates and transitions freq…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 110, 214422] Published Mon Dec 16, 2024


---
# Magnetic ground state of monolayer ${\mathrm{CeI}}_{2}$: Occupation matrix control and $\mathrm{DFT}+\mathrm{U}$ calculations

## 单层磁基态 ${\ mathrm{CeI }}_{ 2 }$: 占据矩阵控制和 $ \ mathrm{DFT} \ mathrm{U}$ 计算

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.110.224421

**Authors:** Yue-Fei Hou, Shujing Li, Xinlong Yang, Wei Jiang, Qiuhao Wang, Fawei Zheng, Zhen-Guo Fu, and Ping Zhang

Author(s): Yue-Fei Hou, Shujing Li, Xinlong Yang, Wei Jiang, Qiuhao Wang, Fawei Zheng, Zhen-Guo Fu, and Ping Zhang<br /><p>The magnetic ground state is crucial for applications of two-dimension magnets because it determines the fundamental magnetic properties of the material, such as magnetic order, magnetic transition temperature, and low-energy excitation of the spin waves. However, simulations of the magnetism of loc…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 110, 224421] Published Mon Dec 16, 2024


---
# Magnetic anisotropy in epitaxial ${\mathrm{CoV}}_{2}{\mathrm{O}}_{4}$ thin films under strain

## 应变下外延 ${\ mathrm{CoV }}_{ 2 }{\ mathrm{O }}_{ 4}$ 薄膜的磁各向异性

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.110.224424

**Authors:** Lu Liu, Congmian Zhen, Jiaxuan Feng, Xiaobo Wang, Li Ma, Guoke Li, Dewei Zhao, and Denglu Hou

Author(s): Lu Liu, Congmian Zhen, Jiaxuan Feng, Xiaobo Wang, Li Ma, Guoke Li, Dewei Zhao, and Denglu Hou<br /><p>Epitaxial ${\mathrm{CoV}}_{2}{\mathrm{O}}_{4}$ (CVO) thin films were fabricated on different substrates, and strain-induced magnetic anisotropy is observed in the films. The magnetic easy axis of CVO thin film under compressive strain changes from out-of-plane to in-plane $&lt;83$ K, while under a s…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 110, 224424] Published Mon Dec 16, 2024


---
# Assessing electronic excitation spectra of chromium, palladium, and samarium from their stopping quantities

## 从停止量评估铬，钯和sa的电子激发光谱

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.110.235134

**Authors:** Fan Cheng (程凡), Pablo de Vera, and Rafael Garcia-Molina

Author(s): Fan Cheng (程凡), Pablo de Vera, and Rafael Garcia-Molina<br /><p>The electronic excitation spectrum of a material characterizes the response to external electromagnetic perturbations through its energy loss function (ELF), which is obtained from several experimental sources that usually do not completely agree among them. In this paper, we assess the available EL…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 110, 235134] Published Mon Dec 16, 2024


---
# Absence of ferromagnetic instability and weak spin-orbit coupling effect in $A{\mathrm{V}}_{3}{\mathrm{Sb}}_{5}$ ($A=\mathrm{Cs}$, Rb, and K)

## $ A{\ mathrm{V }}_{ 3 }{\ mathrm{Sb }}}_{ 5}$ ($ A = \ mathrm{Cs }$, Rb，and K) 中不存在铁磁不稳定性和弱自旋轨道耦合效应

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.110.245128

**Authors:** Chongze Wang, Shichang Yao, Shuyuan Liu, Bing Wang, Liangliang Liu, Yu Jia, and Jun-Hyung Cho

Author(s): Chongze Wang, Shichang Yao, Shuyuan Liu, Bing Wang, Liangliang Liu, Yu Jia, and Jun-Hyung Cho<br /><p>A family of V-based kagome metals $A{\mathrm{V}}_{3}{\mathrm{Sb}}_{5}$ ($A=\text{Cs}$, Rb, K) presents an intriguing platform for exploring the interplay of time-reversal symmetry breaking, nontrivial topological bands, and electron correlations, resulting in a range of exotic quantum states, includ…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 110, 245128] Published Mon Dec 16, 2024


---
# Electronic and magnetic properties of ${\mathrm{LaCu}}_{x}{\mathrm{Sb}}_{2}$ tuned by Cu occupancy

## $ {\ mathrm{LaCu }}_{ x }{\ mathrm{Sb }}_{ 2}$ 的电子和磁性

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.110.245129

**Authors:** Suyoung Kim, Obinna P. Uzoh, and Eundeok Mun

Author(s): Suyoung Kim, Obinna P. Uzoh, and Eundeok Mun<br /><p>We report thermodynamic and transport properties of ${\mathrm{LaCu}}_{x}{\mathrm{Sb}}_{2}$ $(0.92≤x≤1.12)$, synthesized by controlling the initial loading composition and investigated by magnetization, electrical resistivity, and specific heat measurements. The physical properties of this system are…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 110, 245129] Published Mon Dec 16, 2024


---
# Electrodynamics of the quantum anomalous Hall state in a magnetically doped topological insulator

## 磁掺杂拓扑绝缘体中量子反常霍尔态的电动力学

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.110.L241106

**Authors:** Zhenisbek Tagay, Hee Taek Yi, Deepti Jain, Seongshik Oh, and N. P. Armitage

Author(s): Zhenisbek Tagay, Hee Taek Yi, Deepti Jain, Seongshik Oh, and N. P. Armitage<br /><p>Magnetically doped topological insulators have been extensively studied over the past decade as a material platform to exhibit quantum anomalous Hall effect. Most material realizations are magnetically doped and despite material advances suffer from large disorder effects. In such systems, it is bel…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 110, L241106] Published Mon Dec 16, 2024


---
# Electrical Spin State Manipulation in All‐Magnet Heterojunctions Using a Ferromagnetic Spin Source

## 使用铁磁自旋源在全磁异质结中的电自旋态操纵

Link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202408340?af=R

**Authors:** Hang Xie, 
Zhiqiang Mu, 
Yuxin Si, 
Jiaqi Wang, 
Xiangrong Wang, 
Yihong Wu

Advanced Materials, EarlyView.


---
# Medium‐Entropy Engineering of Magnetism in Layered Antiferromagnet CuxNi2(1‐x)CrxP2S6

## 层状反铁磁体CuxNi2 (1-x) CrxP2S6中磁的熵工程

Link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202418722?af=R

**Authors:** Dinesh Upreti, 
Rabindra Basnet, 
M. M. Sharma, 
Santosh Karki Chhetri, 
Gokul Acharya, 
Md Rafique Un Nabi, 
Josh Sakon, 
Mourad Benamara, 
Mansour Mortazavi, 
Jin Hu

Advanced Functional Materials, EarlyView.


---
# Nonreciprocal spin-wave dispersion in magnetic bilayers

## 磁性双层中的非互易自旋波色散

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09704

**Authors:** C. Heins, V. Iurchuk, O. Gladii, L. K\"orber, A. K\'akay, J. Fassbender, K. Schultheiss, H. Schultheiss

arXiv:2412.09704v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Nonreciprocal spin-wave propagation in bilayer ferromagnetic systems has attracted significant attention due to its potential to precisely quantify material parameters as well as for applications in magnonic logic and information processing. In this study we investigate the nonreciprocity of spin-wave dispersions in heterostructures consisting of two distinct ferromagnetic materials, focusing on the influence of saturation magnetization and thickness of the magnetic layers. We exploit Brillouin light scattering to confirm numerical calculations which are conducted with the finite element software TETRAX. An extensive numerical analysis reveals that the nonreciprocal behavior is strongly influenced by the changing material parameters, with asymmetry in the spin-wave propagation direction reaching several GHz under optimized conditions. Our findings demonstrate that tailoring the bilayer composition enables precise control over nonreciprocity, providing a pathway for engineering efficient unidirectional spin-wave devices. These results offer a deeper understanding of hybrid ferromagnetic systems and open avenues for designing advanced magnonic circuits.


---
# Optimizing power and efficiency of a single spin heat engine

## 优化单个自旋热机的功率和效率

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09802

**Authors:** Rita Majumdar, Monojit Chatterjee, Rahul Marathe

arXiv:2412.09802v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We study the behavior of a single spin in the presence of a time-varying magnetic field utilizing Glauber dynamics. We engineer the system to function as an engine by changing the magnetic field according to specific protocols. Subsequently, we analyze the engine's performance using various protocols and stochastic thermodynamics to compute average values of crucial quantities for quantifying engine performance. In the longtime limit of the engine cycle, we derive exact analytical expressions for work, heat, and efficiency in terms of a generalized protocol. We then analyze the model in terms of optimization of efficiency and power. Additionally, we use different protocols and employ a gradient descent algorithm to best fit those to obtain optimal efficiency and then optimal power for a finite cycle time. All the protocols converge to the piece-wise constant protocol during efficiency optimization. We then explore a more general approach using the variational principle to determine the optimal protocols for optimizing power and efficiency. During the optimization process for both power and efficiency, the net entropy production decreases, which enhances the engine's performance. This approach demonstrates the superior optimization of efficiency and power in this system compared to the gradient descent algorithm.


---
# Bilayer orthogonal ferromagnetism in CrTe$_2$-based van der Waals system

## 基于CrTe $_2 $ 的范德华系统中的双层正交铁磁性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09955

**Authors:** Chiara Bigi, Cyriack Jego, Vincent Polewczyk, Alessandro De Vita, Thomas Jaouen, Hulerich C. Tchouekem, Fran\c{c}ois Bertran, Patrick Le F\`evre, Pascal Turban, Jean-Fran\c{c}ois Jacquot, Jill A. Miwa, Oliver J. Clark, Anupam Jana, Sandeep Kumar Chaluvadi, Pasquale Orgiani, Mario Cuoco, Mats Leandersson, Thiagarajan Balasubramanian, Thomas Olsen, Younghun Hwang, Matthieu Jamet, Federico Mazzola

arXiv:2412.09955v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Systems with pronounced spin anisotropy play a pivotal role in advancing magnetization switching and spin-wave generation mechanisms, which are fundamental for spintronic technologies. Quasi-van der Waals ferromagnets, particularly Cr$_{1+\delta}$Te$_2$ compounds, represent seminal materials in this field, renowned for their delicate balance between frustrated layered geometries and magnetism. Despite extensive investigation, the precise nature of their magnetic ground state, typically described as a canted ferromagnet, remains contested, as does the mechanism governing spin reorientation under external magnetic fields and varying temperatures. In this work, we leverage a multimodal approach, integrating complementary techniques, to reveal that Cr$_{1+\delta}$Te$_2$ ($\delta = 0.25 - 0.50$) hosts a previously overlooked magnetic phase, which we term orthogonal-ferromagnetism. This single phase consists of alternating atomically sharp single layers of in-plane and out-of-plane ferromagnetic blocks, coupled via exchange interactions and as such, it differs significantly from crossed magnetism, which can be achieved exclusively by stacking multiple heterostructural elements together. Contrary to earlier reports suggesting a gradual spin reorientation in CrTe$_2$-based systems, we present definitive evidence of abrupt spin-flop-like transitions. This discovery, likely due to the improved crystallinity and lower defect density in our samples, repositions Cr$_{1+\delta}$Te$_2$ compounds as promising candidates for spintronic and orbitronic applications, opening new pathways for device engineering.


---
# Ultrafast Polarization Switching via Laser-activated Ionic Migration in Ferroelectric CuInP$_2$S$_6$

## 铁电CuInP $_2 $ S $_6 $ 中激光激活离子迁移的超快极化开关

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09958

**Authors:** Jin Zhang, Kun Yang, Jianxin Yu, Huixia Fu, Zijing Ding, Xinghua Shi, Sheng Meng

arXiv:2412.09958v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: As a layered ferroelectric material, CuInP2S6 has garnered significant attention for its robust ferroelectric state and potential applications in memory devices. In this work, we demonstrate that with short laser pulses ultrafast reversible polarization switching within hundreds of femtoseconds can be achieved in ferroelectric CuInP$_2$S$_6$. Specifically, photoexcitation triggers collective ionic migration and ferroelectricity reversal in CuInP$_2$S$_6$, revealing a novel pathway to access different ferroelectric phases through optical excitation. Our findings indicate that laser pulses substantially alter the transition barriers, promoting ionic transport facilitated by the photodoping effect. This laser-induced ionic migration proves critical for enabling polarization transitions, offering a novel pathway to explore and control exotic quantum phases. These insights open exciting possibilities for manipulating ferroelectric states and electronic properties on an unprecedented ultrafast timescale.


---
# Switchable Chern insulator, isospin competitions and charge density waves in rhombohedral graphene moire superlattices

## 菱形石墨烯莫尔超晶格中的可切换Chern绝缘体，同位旋竞争和电荷密度波

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09985

**Authors:** Jian Zheng, Size Wu, Kai Liu, Bosai Lyu, Shuhan Liu, Yating Sha, Zhengxian Li, Kenji Watanabe, Takashi Taniguchi, Jinfeng Jia, Zhiwen Shi, Guorui Chen

arXiv:2412.09985v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Graphene-based moire superlattices provide a versatile platform for exploring novel correlated and topological electronic states, driven by enhanced Coulomb interactions within flat bands. The intrinsic tunability of graphene s multiple degrees of freedom enables precise control over these complex quantum phases. In this study, we observe a range of competing phases and their transitions in rhombohedrally stacked hexalayer graphene on hexagonal boron nitride (r-6G/hBN) moire superlattices. When electrons are polarized away from the moire superlattice, we firstly identify a Chern insulator with reversible Chern numbers at v = 1 (one electron per moire cell), attributed to the competition between bulk and edge magnetizations.Then, we detect transitions between three distinct insulating states at v = 2, driven by vertical displacement field D and vertical magnetic field B. These insulating phases are distinguished as spin-antiferromagnetic, spin-polarized, and valley-polarized insulators, based on their responses to parallel and perpendicular magnetic fields. When electrons are polarized toward the moire superlattice, in a device with large twist angle, insulating states appear at v = 1/3 and 2/3 at zero magnetic field, and v = 1/2 in a magnetic field. Our findings reveal a rich interplay of charge, isospin, topology and magnetic field in rhombohedral graphene moire superlattices.


---
# Magnetic and electronic properties of 1D hybrid nanoobjects composed of alternating polycyclic hydrocarbon regions and double carbon chains

## 由交替的多环烃区域和双碳链组成的一维杂化纳米物体的磁性和电子性质

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10015

**Authors:** Irina V. Lebedeva, Sergey A. Vyrko, Alexander S. Sinitsa, Sergey V. Ratkevich, Andrey M. Popov, Andrey A. Knizhnik, Nikolai A. Poklonski, Yurii E. Lozovik

arXiv:2412.10015v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: It has been proposed recently that 1D hybrid nanoobjects consisting of alternating double carbon chains and polycyclic carbon regions can be obtained from graphene nanoribbons of alternating width by electron irradiation. Here, based on density functional theory calculations, we show that magnetic and electronic properties of such nanoobjects can be changed dramatically by modifying the chain length and edge structure of polycyclic regions and this opens wide possibilities for spintronic applications. Nanoobjects composed of polycyclic regions with dangling bonds and even chains are found to behave as magnetic semiconductors that can generate spin-polarized currents. Band gaps of nanoobjects with odd chains change considerably upon switching between magnetic states making them promising for magnetic tunnel junctions. We also demonstrate that use of a hybrid exchange-correlation functional is important to properly describe stability of magnetic states, band gaps and synergistic effects of nanoobject components leading, for example, to magnetism in even chains.


---
# Carrier localization in defected areas of (Cd, Mn)Te quantum well investigated via Optically Detected Magnetic Resonance employed in the microscale

## (Cd，Mn)Te量子阱缺陷区域中的载流子定位

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10075

**Authors:** Amadeusz Dydnia\'nski, Aleksandra {\L}opion, Mateusz Raczy\'nski, Tomasz Kazimierczuk, Karolina Ewa Po{\l}czy\'nska, Wojciech Pacuski, Piotr Kossacki

arXiv:2412.10075v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: In this work, we study the impact of carrier localization on three quantities sensitive to carrier gas density at the micrometer scale: charged exciton (X+) oscillator strength, local free carrier conductivity, and the Knight shift. The last two are observed in a micrometer-scale, spatially resolved optically detected magnetic resonance experiment (ODMR). On the surface of MBE-grown (Cd,Mn)Te quantum well we identify defected areas in the vicinity of dislocations. We find that these areas show a much lower conductivity signal while maintaining the same Knight shift values as the pristine areas of the quantum well. We attribute this behavior to carrier localization in the defected regions.


---
# Polarization rotation in a ferroelectric BaTiO$_3$ film through low-energy He-implantation

## 通过低能He注入在铁电BaTiO $_3 $ 薄膜中的极化旋转

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10077

**Authors:** Andreas Herklotz, Robert Roth, Zhi Xiang Chong, Liang Luo, Joong Mok Park, Matthew Brahlek, Jigang Wang, Kathrin D\"orr, Thomas Zac Ward

arXiv:2412.10077v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Domain engineering in ferroelectric thin films is crucial for next-generation microelectronic and photonic technologies. Here, a method is demonstrated to precisely control domain configurations in BaTiO$_3$ thin films through low-energy He ion implantation. The approach transforms a mixed ferroelectric domain state with significant in-plane polarization into a uniform out-of-plane tetragonal phase by selectively modifying the strain state in the film's top region. This structural transition significantly improves domain homogeneity and reduces polarization imprint, leading to symmetric ferroelectric switching characteristics. The demonstrated ability to manipulate ferroelectric domains post-growth enables tailored functional properties without compromising the coherently strained bottom interface. The method's compatibility with semiconductor processing and ability to selectively modify specific regions make it particularly promising for practical implementation in integrated devices. This work establishes a versatile approach for strain-mediated domain engineering that could be extended to a wide range of ferroelectric systems, providing new opportunities for memory, sensing, and photonic applications where precise control of polarization states is essential.


---
# Anomalous scaling and magnetization temperature dependence in cubic ferromagnetic crystals

## 立方铁磁晶体中的异常缩放和磁化温度依赖性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10124

**Authors:** Igor Kolokolov, Victor S. L'vov, Anna Pomyalov

arXiv:2412.10124v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Recent developments in spintronics have drawn renewed attention to the spin dynamics of cubic ferromagnetic crystals EuO and EuS. These ferromagnets have the simplest possible magnetic structure, making them the most suitable systems for testing various theoretical models of magnetic materials. A commonly used Wess mean-field approximation (MFA) provides only a qualitative description of magnetization temperature dependence $M(T)$. We develop a consistent theory for $M(T)$, based on the perturbation diagrammatic technique for spin operators, leading to an excellent quantitative agreement with the experimental dependence of $M(T)$ for EuO and EuS throughout the entire temperature range from $T=0$ to Curie temperature $T_{_{C}}$. In particular, our theoretical dependence $M(T)$ demonstrates an anomalous scaling behavior $ M(T)\propto (T_{_{C}}-T)^\beta$ with the scaling index $\beta\approx 1/3$ in a wide range of temperatures, in agreement with the experimentally observed scaling in EuO and EuS. This scaling index is principally different from the scaling index $\beta=1/2$ predicted by the MFA.


---
# Control of Ferrimagnetic Compensation and Perpendicular Anisotropy in Tb$_x$Co$_{(100-x)}$ with H$^{+}$ ion implantation

## H $^{ }$ 离子注入控制Tb $ _x $ Co $_{(100-x)}$ 中的铁磁补偿和垂直各向异性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10132

**Authors:** Robbie G. Hunt, Dmitrii Moldarev, Mat\'ias P. Grassi, Daniel Primetzhofer, Gabriella Andersson

arXiv:2412.10132v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The tuning of magnetic properties through electrochemical loading of hydrogen has recently attracted significant interest as a way to manipulate magnetic devices with electric fields. In this paper we investigate quantitatively the magneto-ionic effect of hydrogen uptake on the magnetic properties of rare-earth transition metal alloy Tb$_x$Co$_{(100-x)}$ in the composition range of $x=10-39$ at.\% using ion implantation. Using this technique we are able to link changes in magnetic behaviour to exact concentrations of hydrogen, isolated from the movement of any other ions that would be a factor in electrochemical studies. The composition of the alloy has been varied alongside the hydrogen dose to characterize the effect of progressive hydrogen loading on the full range of $x$ displaying out-of-plane magnetic anisotropy. We find large changes in two important properties: the compensation composition and the Co-rich in-plane to out-of-plane magnetic anisotropy transition composition, both of which move by 6 at.\% towards higher Tb concentrations after hydrogen implantation. This shift in composition does not increase with a larger dose. From the changes in magnetization we attribute the change in compensation composition to a significant reduction of the moment on the Tb sublattice.


---
# Thermomagnetic anomalies in quantum magnon transport caused by tunable junction geometries in cold atomic systems

## 冷原子系统中由可调结几何引起的量子磁振子传输中的热磁异常

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10147

**Authors:** Yuta Sekino, Yuya Ominato, Hiroyuki Tajima, Shun Uchino, Mamoru Matsuo

arXiv:2412.10147v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We study magnon-driven spin and heat transport in a magnetic linear junction (MLJ) formed by two ferromagnets in optical lattices linked via linearly aligned bonds. Using the Schwinger-Keldysh formalism, we uncover that under weak effective Zeeman fields, where Bose-Einstein statistics of magnons dominate, magnonic criticality dramatically enhances spin and thermal conductances. These singular transport properties depend on the junction geometry, and the transport properties qualitatively differ between the linear junction in this study and the point contact in our previous work. The quantum-enhanced conductances result in the breakdown of the magnonic Wiedemann-Franz (WF) law. In the classical regime at temperatures much lower than magnon energy gaps, we find that a magnonic Lorenz number becomes independent of temperature yet dependent on junction geometry, sharply contrasting with the universal WF law for Fermi liquids. We also find that the interface geometry of MLJ decouples spin and heat relaxations between ferromagnets with decay times insensitive to temperature and effective Zeeman fields. These dynamics reveal junction-geometry-sensitive magnon transport distinct from Fermi liquids, paving the way for new avenues in thermomagnetic research leveraging the tunability of cold atomic systems.


---
# Appearance of $c$-axis magnetic moment in odd-parity antiferromagnetic state in CeRh$_2$As$_2$ revealed by $^{75}$As-NMR

## $ ^{75}$ as-nmr揭示的CeRh $_2 $ As $ c $ 轴在奇偶性反铁磁状态下的出现

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10148

**Authors:** Shiki Ogata, Shunsaku Kitagawa, Katsuki Kinjo, Kenji Ishida, Manuel Brando, Elena Hassinger, Christoph Geibel, Seunghyun Khim

arXiv:2412.10148v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: CeRh$_2$As$_2$ shows the superconducting (SC) multiphase under the $c$-axis magnetic field, which is considered to originate from local inversion symmetry breaking at the Ce site. We reported that the antiferromagnetic (AFM) order is inside the SC phase and that the AFM state disappears at the transition field to the high-field SC phase. However, the magnetic structure in the AFM state has not been clarified yet. In this study, we performed $^{75}$As-NMR measurements in the SC phase in $H\parallel [110]$ to identify the magnetic structure. Comparing the NMR linewidth with $H \parallel c$, we found that the internal magnetic field is oriented to the $c$ axis. This suggests a $q = 0$ $A$-type AFM with the moments parallel to the $c$ axis. We also observed the reduction of the spin susceptibility, which indicates spin-singlet superconductivity in the low-field SC phase. This study provides an important clue to clarify the correlation between the SC multiphase, magnetism, and local inversion symmetry breaking.


---
# Quantum transport theory for unconventional magnets; interplay of altermagnetism and p-wave magnetism with superconductivity

## 非常规磁体的量子输运理论; 高磁和p波磁性与超导性的相互作用

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10236

**Authors:** Tim Kokkeler, Ilya Tokatly, F. Sebastian Bergeret

arXiv:2412.10236v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We present a quantum transport theory for generic magnetic metals, in which magnetism occurs predominantly due to exchange interactions, such as ferromagnets, antiferromagnets, altermagnets and p-wave magnets. Our theory is valid both for the normal and the superconducting state. We derive the effective low-energy action for each of these materials, where the spin space groups are used to determine the form of the tensor coefficients appearing in the action. The transport equations, which are obtained as the saddle point equations of this action, describe a wider range of phenomena than the usual quasiclassical equations. In ferromagnets, in addition to the usual exchange field and spin relaxation effects, we identify a spin-dependent renormalization of the diffusion coefficient, which provides a description of spinpolarized currents in both the normal and superconducting equal spin-triplet states. In the normal state, our equations provide a complete description of the spin-splitting effect in diffusive systems, recently predicted in ideal clean altermagnets. In the superconducting state, our equations predict a proximity induced magnetization, the appearance of a spontaneous magnetic moment in hybrid superconductor-altermagnet systems. The distribution and polarization direction of this magnetic moment depend on the symmetry of the structure, thus measurements of such polarization reveal the underlying microscopic symmetry of the altermagnet. Finally, for inversionsymmetry broken antiferromagnets, such as the p-wave magnet, we show that spin-galvanic effects which are distinguishable from the spin-galvanic effect induced by spin-orbit coupling only in the superconducting state. Besides these examples, our model applies to arbitrary magnetic systems, providing a complete theory for nonequilibrium transport in diffusive nonconventional magnets at arbitrary temperatures.


---
# Spin density wave and van Hove singularity in the kagome metal CeTi3Bi4

## kagome金属CeTi3Bi4中的自旋密度波和van Hove奇点

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10286

**Authors:** Pyeongjae Park, Brenden R. Ortiz, Milo Sprague, Anup Pradhan Sakhya, Si Athena Chen, Matthias. D. Frontzek, Wei Tian, Romain Sibille, Daniel G. Mazzone, Chihiro Tabata, Koji Kaneko, Lisa M. DeBeer-Schmitt, Matthew B. Stone, David S. Parker, German D. Samolyuk, Hu Miao, Madhab Neupane, Andrew D. Christianson

arXiv:2412.10286v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Kagome metals with van Hove singularities (VHSs) near the Fermi level can host intriguing quantum phenomena, including chiral loop currents, electronic nematicity, and unconventional superconductivity. However, unconventional magnetic states driven by VHSs, such as spin-density waves (SDWs), have yet to be observed experimentally in kagome metals. Here, we present a comprehensive investigation of the magnetic and electronic structure of the layered kagome metal CeTi3Bi4, where the Ti kagome electronic structure interacts with a magnetic sublattice of Ce3+ Jeff = 1/2 moments. Our neutron diffraction measurements reveal an incommensurate SDW ground state of the Ce3+ Jeff = 1/2 moments, which notably coexists with commensurate antiferromagnetic order across most of the temperature-field phase diagram. The commensurate component is preferentially suppressed by both thermal fluctuations and external magnetic fields, resulting in a rich phase diagram that includes an intermediate single-Q SDW phase. First-principles calculations and angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES) measurements identify VHSs near the Fermi level, with the observed magnetic propagation vectors connecting their high density of states, strongly suggesting a VHS-assisted SDW in CeTi3Bi4. These findings establish the rare-earth Kagome metals LnTi3Bi4 as a model platform where characteristic electronic structure of the kagome lattice plays a pivotal role in magnetic order.


---
# High-throughput Search for Metallic Altermagnets by Embedded Dynamical Mean Field Theory

## 通过嵌入式动态平均场理论对金属高磁进行高通量搜索

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10356

**Authors:** Xuhao Wan, Subhasish Mandal, Yuzheng Guo, Kristjan Haule

arXiv:2412.10356v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Altermagnets (AM) are a novel class of magnetic materials with zero net magnetization but broken time-reversal symmetry and spin-split bands exceeding the spin-orbit coupling scale, offering unique control of individual spin-channel and high charge-spin conversion efficiency for spintronic applications. Still, only a few metallic altermagnets have been identified, and discovering them through trial-and-error is resource-intensive. Here, we introduce a high-throughput screening strategy to accelerate the discovery of materials with altermagnetic properties. By combining density functional theory (DFT) with embedded dynamical mean-field theory (eDMFT), our approach improves the accuracy in predicting metallicity and spin splitting, especially in transition-metal-rich compounds. An automated workflow incorporates pre-screening and symmetry analysis to reduce both human effort and computational cost. This approach identified two previously unreported metallic altermagnets, CrSe and CaFe4Al8 (in addition to two known altermagnets, CrSb and RuO2), as well as a dozen semiconducting altermagnets among over 2,000 magnetic materials. Our findings reveal that while altermagnets are abundant among magnetic materials, only a tiny fraction is metallic.


---
# Towards the phase diagram of fermions coupled with $SO(3)$ quantum links in $(2+1)$-D

## 关于 $(2 1)$-D中 $ SO(3)$ 量子链的费米子相图

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09691

**Authors:** Graham Van Goffrier, Debasish Banerjee, Bipasha Chakraborty, Emilie Huffman, Sandip Maiti

arXiv:2412.09691v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Quantum link models (QLMs) are generalizations of Wilson's lattice gauge theory formulated with finite-dimensional link Hilbert spaces. In certain cases, the non-Abelian Gauss Law constraint can be exactly solved, and the gauge invariant subspace embedded onto local spin Hamiltonians for efficient quantum simulation. In $(1+1)d$ previous studies of the $SO(3)$ QLM coupled to adjoint fermionic matter have been shown to reflect key properties of QCD and nuclear physics, including distinct confining/deconfining phases and hadronic bound states. We extend the model to $(2+1)d$ dimensions for the first time, and report on our initial results. We review the construction of gauge-invariant state space for the proposed models, and study the single-plaquette ground state via exact-diagonalisation. We provide indications of a rich phase diagram which shows both spontaneous and explicit chiral symmetry breaking, confinement, and distinct magnetic phases characterised by different plaquette expectation values.


---
# Orthogonal Geometry of Magneto-Optical Kerr Effect Enabled by Magnetization Multipole of Berry Curvature

## 通过Berry曲率的磁化多极实现的磁光Kerr效应的正交几何

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09857

**Authors:** Haolin Pan, Han Li, Jixiang Huang, Zheng Liu, Mingyue Fang, Yanan Yuan, Daxiang Liu, Xintong Hu, Wenzhi Peng, Zhenguo Liang, Xiao Chang, Zhigao Sheng, Xianzhe Chen, Lingfei Wang, Qian Li, Peng Li, Qian Niu, Yang Gao, Qinghui Yang, Dazhi Hou

arXiv:2412.09857v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: The Magneto-Optical Kerr Effect (MOKE) is a fundamental tool in magnetometry, pivotal for advancing research in optics, magnetism, and spintronics as a direct probe of magnetization. Traditional MOKE measurements primarily detect the magnetization components parallel to the Poynting vector, which can only access the magnitude but not the direction of the orthogonal component. In this study, we introduce an orthogonal MOKE geometry in which the Kerr signal detects both the magnitude and direction of the magnetization component perpendicular to the Poynting vector. We demonstrate the broad applicability of this orthogonal geometry through the MOKE measurements in cubic ferromagnets and van der Waals ferromagnet. We theoretically show that the orthogonal MOKE geometry is enabled by the multipolar structure of Berry curvature in the magnetization space, which generally induces a Voigt vector orthogonal to the magnetization, thereby accounting for the unique magnetization angle dependence distinct from conventional MOKE. The establishment of the orthogonal MOKE geometry not only introduces a new paradigm for magneto-optical measurements but also provides a framework for exploring the magnetization multipoles of Berry curvature across the electromagnetic spectrum.


---
# Behaviour of One-Site Entanglement and Reduced Fidelity in an Anisotropic Spin-2 chain

## 各向异性自旋2链中一位点纠缠和保真度降低的行为

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09891

**Authors:** Victoria Sharmila Gomes, Amit Tribedi, Subhrajyoti Dey

arXiv:2412.09891v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Utilizing the matrix product formalism, we have studied the variation of entanglement and fidelity measures in the MP ground states of a generic anisotropic spin 2 chain with nearest neighbour interactions and shared symmetries. These MP states represent the exact Ground State solutions of the system and display distinctive characteristics determined by a maximum of three parameters exhibiting one antiferromagnetic Haldane phase (AFMH), together with a secondary weak antiferromagnetic (WAFM) and a weak ferromagnetic phase (WFM). Using Transfer Matrix Method (TM), we have obtained nontrivial features in the variation of Quantum Correlation measures and QIT Measures around the VBS point for an acritical choice of the parameters, and a Quantum Critical Point, for a critical choice of the parameters, of the AFMH spin liquid phase of the system.


---
# Roughening dynamics of interfaces in two-dimensional quantum matter

## 二维量子物质中界面的粗糙化动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10145

**Authors:** Wladislaw Krinitsin, Niklas Tausendpfund, Matteo Rizzi, Markus Heyl, Markus Schmitt

arXiv:2412.10145v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: The properties of interfaces are key to understand the physics of matter. However, the study of quantum interface dynamics has remained an outstanding challenge. Here, we use large-scale Tree Tensor Network simulations to identify the dynamical signature of an interface roughening transition within the ferromagnetic phase of the 2D quantum Ising model. For initial domain wall profiles we find extended prethermal plateaus for smooth interfaces, whereas above the roughening transition the domain wall decays quickly. Our results can be readily explored experimentally in Rydberg atomic systems.


---
# Seeking the Casimir Energy

## 寻求卡西米尔能源

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10179

**Authors:** David K. Campbell, Ian Bouche, Abhishek Som, David J. Bishop

arXiv:2412.10179v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Since its first description in 1948, the Casimir effect has been studied extensively. Standard arguments for its existence hinge on the elimination of certain modes of the electromagnetic field because of the boundary conditions in the Casimir cavity. As such, it has been suggested that the ground state energy of the vacuum within the cavity may be reduced compared to the value outside. Could this have an effect on physical phenomena within the cavity? We study this Casimir energy and probe whether the critical temperature $T_c$ of a superconductor is altered when it is placed in the cavity. We do not detect any change in $T_c$ larger than 12 microKelvin, but theoretically expect a change on the order of 0.025 microKelvin, roughly 1000 times lower than our achieved sensitivity.


---
# Exact eigenstates of multicomponent Hubbard models: SU($N$) magnetic $\eta$ pairing, weak ergodicity breaking, and partial integrability

## 多分量Hubbard模型的精确本征态: SU($ N $) 磁性 $ \ eta $ 配对，弱的回溯性破坏和部分可积性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2205.07235

**Authors:** Masaya Nakagawa, Hosho Katsura, Masahito Ueda

arXiv:2205.07235v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We construct exact eigenstates of multicomponent Hubbard models in arbitrary dimensions by generalizing the $\eta$-pairing mechanism. Our models include the SU($N$) Hubbard model as a special case. Unlike the conventional two-component case, the generalized $\eta$-pairing mechanism permits the construction of eigenstates that feature off-diagonal long-range order and magnetic long-range order. These states form fragmented fermionic condensates due to a simultaneous condensation of multicomponent $\eta$ pairs. While the $\eta$-pairing states in the SU(2) Hubbard model are based on the $\eta$-pairing symmetry, the exact eigenstates in the $N$-component system with $N\geq 3$ arise not from symmetry of the Hamiltonian but from a spectrum generating algebra defined in a Hilbert subspace. We exploit this fact to show that the generalized $\eta$-pairing eigenstates do not satisfy the eigenstate thermalization hypothesis and serve as quantum many-body scar states. This result indicates a weak breakdown of ergodicity in the $N$-component Hubbard models for $N\geq 3$. Furthermore, we show that these exact eigenstates constitute integrable subsectors in which the Hubbard Hamiltonian effectively reduces to a non-interacting model. This partial integrability causes various multicomponent Hubbard models to weakly break ergodicity. We propose a method of harnessing dissipation to distill the integrable part of the dynamics and elucidate a mechanism of non-thermalization caused by dissipation. This work establishes the coexistence of off-diagonal long-range order and SU($N$) magnetism in excited eigenstates of the multicomponent Hubbard models, which presents a possibility of novel out-of-equilibrium pairing states of multicomponent fermions. These models unveil a unique feature of quantum thermalization of multicomponent fermions, which can experimentally be tested with cold-atom quantum simulators.


---
# Pair-breaking scattering interference as a mechanism for superconducting gap modulation

## 成对断裂散射干扰是超导间隙调制的一种机制

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.06024

**Authors:** Zhi-Qiang Gao, Yu-Ping Lin, Dung-Hai Lee

arXiv:2310.06024v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We propose the ``pair-breaking scattering interference" as a general source of coherence peak modulations in superconductors. Assuming this mechanism, we present a simple physical picture for the coherence peak modulations in overdoped cuprate Bi$_2$Sr$_2$Ca$_2$Cu$_3$O$_{10+\delta}$ (Bi-2223), ferromagnetic iron pnictide EuRbFe$_4$As$_4$ (Eu-1144), and kagome metals $A$V$_3$Sb$_5$ ($A=$ K, Rb, and Cs). Specifically, we explain the wavevectors, the particle-hole symmetry, and the dependence on the internal or external Zeeman-field of the coherence peak modulations. This work is intended as a cautious reminder to the scientific community when asserting the existence of a pair density wave phenomenon in the absence of tunneling conductance modulations in the normal state.


---
# Dirac Fermions and Topological Phases in Magnetic Topological Insulator Films

## 磁性拓扑绝缘体薄膜中的狄拉克费米子和拓扑相

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.09121

**Authors:** Kai-Zhi Bai, Bo Fu, Shun-Qing Shen

arXiv:2405.09121v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We develop a Dirac fermion theory for topological phases in magnetic topological insulator films. The theory is based on exact solutions of the energies and the wave functions for an effective model of the three-dimensional topological insulator (TI) film. It is found that the TI film consists of a pair of massless or massive Dirac fermions for the surface states, and a series of massive Dirac fermions for the bulk states. The massive Dirac fermion always carries zero or integer quantum Hall conductance when the valence band is fully occupied while the massless Dirac fermion carries a one-half quantum Hall conductance when the chemical potential is located around the Dirac point for a finite range. The magnetic exchange interaction in the magnetic layers in the film can be used to manipulate either the masses or chirality of the Dirac fermions and gives rise to distinct topological phases, which cover the known topological insulating phases, such as quantum anomalous Hall effect, quantum spin Hall effect and axion effect, and also the novel topological metallic phases, such as half quantized Hall effect, half quantum mirror Hall effect, and metallic quantum anomalous Hall effect.


---
# Absence of Long-Range Magnetic Ordering in a Trirutile High-Entropy Oxide (Mn$_{0.2}$Fe$_{0.2}$Co$_{0.2}$Ni$_{0.2}$Cu$_{0.2}$)Ta$_{1.92}$O$_{6-\delta}$

## 三元金红石型高熵氧化物 (Mn $_{0.2}$ Fe $_{0.2}$ Co $_{0.2}$ Ni $_{0.2}$ Cu $_{0.2}$ Ta $_{1.92}$ O $_{6-\ delta}$ 中不存在长程磁有序

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.15501

**Authors:** Gina Angelo, Liana Klivansky, Jeremy G. Philbrick, Tai Kong, Jian Zhang, Xin Gui

arXiv:2405.15501v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Functionalities of solid-state materials are usually considered to be dependent on their crystal structures. The limited structural types observed in the emerged high-entropy oxides put constraints on exploration of their physical properties and potential applications. Herein, we synthesized the first high-entropy oxide in a trirutile structure, (Mn$_{0.2}$Fe$_{0.2}$Co$_{0.2}$Ni$_{0.2}$Cu$_{0.2}$)Ta$_{1.92}$O$_{6-\delta}$, and investigated its magnetism. The phase purity and high-entropy nature were confirmed by powder X-ray diffraction and energy-dispersive spectroscopy, respectively. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy indicated divalent Mn, Co, Ni and Cu along with trivalent Fe. Magnetic properties measurements showed antiferromagnetic coupling and potential short-range magnetic ordering below ~ 4 K. The temperature-dependent heat capacity data measured under zero and high magnetic field confirmed the lack of long-range magnetic ordering and a possible low-temperature phonon excitation. The discovery of the first trirutile high-entropy oxide opens a new way for studying the relationship between the highly disordered atomic arrangement and their magnetic interaction. Furthermore, it provides a new direction for exploring functionalities of high-entropy oxides.


---
# Curvature induced magnetization of altermagnetic films

## Altermal磁性薄膜的曲率诱导磁化

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.05103

**Authors:** Kostiantyn V. Yershov, Olena Gomonay, Jairo Sinova, Jeroen van den Brink, Volodymyr P. Kravchuk

arXiv:2406.05103v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We consider a thin film of $d$-wave altermagnet bent in a stretching-free manner and demonstrate that gradients of the film curvature induce a local magnetization which is approximately tangential to the film. The magnetization amplitude directly reflects the altermagnetic symmetry and depends on the direction of bending. It is maximal for the bending along directions of the maximal altermagnetic splitting of the magnon bands. A periodically bent film of sinusoidal shape possesses a total magnetic moment per period $\propto\mathscr{A}^2q^4$ where $\mathscr{A}$ and $q$ are the bending amplitude and wave vector, respectively. The total magnetic moment is perpendicular to the plane of the unbent film and its direction (up or down) is determined by the bending direction. A film roll up to a nanotube possesses a toroidal moment directed along the tube $\propto \delta_r/r^2$ per one coil, where $r$ and $\delta_r$ are the coil radius and the pitch between coils. All these analytical predictions agree with numerical spin-lattice simulations.


---
# Easy-axis Heisenberg model on the triangular lattice: from supersolid to gapped solid

## 三角形晶格上的易轴海森堡模型: 从超固体到间隙固体

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.05034

**Authors:** Martin Ulaga, Jure Kokalj, Takami Tohyama, Peter Prelov\v{s}ek

arXiv:2408.05034v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We investigate the easy-axis Heisenberg model on the triangular lattice by numerically studying excitations and the dynamical spin structure factor $S^{\mu\mu}({\bf q},\omega)$. Results are analyzed within the supersolid scenario, characterized by the translation-symmetry-breaking parameter $m_z$ and the supersolid offdiagonal order parameter $m_\perp$. We find very robust $m_z > 0$ in the whole easy-axis anisotropy regime $\alpha = J_\perp/J_z > 0$, even enhanced by the magnetic field $h>0$, as well as $m_\perp >0$ for intermediate $\alpha <1$ and $h>0$. Still, at small $\alpha \lesssim 0.2$, relevant for recent experiments on the magnetic material K$_2$Co(SeO$_3$)$_2$, we find at $h=0$ rather vanishing $m_\perp \sim 0$, consistent with the numerical evidence of the finite magnon excitation gap $\Delta_1 \sim 0.25 \alpha J$.


---
# Analytical model for the frequency behavior of two distinct modes in nano-constriction spin Hall nano-oscillator

## 纳米收缩自旋霍尔纳米振荡器中两种不同模式频率行为的解析模型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09277

**Authors:** H. Ghanatian, M. Rajabali, R. Khymyn, A. Kumar, V. H. Gonz\'alez, H. Farkhani, J. {\AA}kerman, F. Moradi

arXiv:2412.09277v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Nano-constriction spin-Hall nano-oscillators (NC-SHNOs) have garnered considerable interest due to their potential use as efficient and adjustable nano-sized sources of microwave signals, with high-frequency tunability, adaptable design layout, and CMOS compatibility. In order to facilitate system- and circuit-level designs based on the NC-SHNOs, it is essential to have an analytical model capable of predicting the behavior of the NC-SHNO. In this paper, we introduce an analytical model to describe the frequency behavior of a single NC-SHNO in an in-plane magnetic field while considering the Oersted field. The model is divided into two regions based on the direct current value: the "linear-like" and "bullet" modes. Each region is characterized by distinct concepts and equations. The first region, the "linear-like mode," emerges from the nano-constriction edges and progresses toward the center of the active area of the NC-SHNO. In contrast, the second regime, the localized "bullet mode," exhibits negative nonlinearity, where increasing the current will lead to a decrease in frequency. The model's validity is confirmed through experimental data obtained from electrical RF measurements on a single 180nm wide NC-SHNO, and the model demonstrates excellent agreement with experimental data.


---
# Progress in Decompositional Electromagnetic Analysis of Digital Interconnects

## 数字互连的分解电磁分析进展

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09639

**Authors:** Yuriy Shlepnev

arXiv:2412.09639v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: In the realm of PCB and packaging interconnect design, electromagnetic analysis tools have transitioned from optional to essential over the last two decades, as data rates soared beyond 6 Gbps. Today, with standard data rates eclipsing 6 Gbps and reaching thresholds of 224 Gbps, these tools are indispensable for designing reliable interconnects. The goals of the interconnect analysis are simple: identify interconnects that may fail at the target data rate and allow troubleshooting and fixing the problem. The most efficient approach to such pass-fail analysis is the Decompositional Electromagnetic Analysis (DEA). It allows separation of the signal degradation factors for faster analysis and troubleshooting. This paper outlines the basic elements of DEA, discusses conditions for its accuracy and underscores its significance in the future of interconnect design.


---
# Orthogonal Geometry of Magneto-Optical Kerr Effect Enabled by Magnetization Multipole of Berry Curvature

## 通过Berry曲率的磁化多极实现的磁光Kerr效应的正交几何

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09857

**Authors:** Haolin Pan, Han Li, Jixiang Huang, Zheng Liu, Mingyue Fang, Yanan Yuan, Daxiang Liu, Xintong Hu, Wenzhi Peng, Zhenguo Liang, Xiao Chang, Zhigao Sheng, Xianzhe Chen, Lingfei Wang, Qian Li, Peng Li, Qian Niu, Yang Gao, Qinghui Yang, Dazhi Hou

arXiv:2412.09857v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The Magneto-Optical Kerr Effect (MOKE) is a fundamental tool in magnetometry, pivotal for advancing research in optics, magnetism, and spintronics as a direct probe of magnetization. Traditional MOKE measurements primarily detect the magnetization components parallel to the Poynting vector, which can only access the magnitude but not the direction of the orthogonal component. In this study, we introduce an orthogonal MOKE geometry in which the Kerr signal detects both the magnitude and direction of the magnetization component perpendicular to the Poynting vector. We demonstrate the broad applicability of this orthogonal geometry through the MOKE measurements in cubic ferromagnets and van der Waals ferromagnet. We theoretically show that the orthogonal MOKE geometry is enabled by the multipolar structure of Berry curvature in the magnetization space, which generally induces a Voigt vector orthogonal to the magnetization, thereby accounting for the unique magnetization angle dependence distinct from conventional MOKE. The establishment of the orthogonal MOKE geometry not only introduces a new paradigm for magneto-optical measurements but also provides a framework for exploring the magnetization multipoles of Berry curvature across the electromagnetic spectrum.


---
# Global electromagnetic gyrokinetic simulations of internal transport barriers in reversed-shear tokamaks

## 反向剪切托卡马克内部运输障碍的全球电磁陀螺动力学模拟

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10027

**Authors:** Giovanni Di Giannatale, Arnas Vol\v{c}okas, Justin Ball, Alberto Bottino, Stephan Brunner, Philippe Griveaux, Moahan Murugappan, Thomas Hayward-Schneider, Laurent Villard

arXiv:2412.10027v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: This work aims at improving our understanding of the conditions enabling the development of an Internal transport barriers (ITB), using a more comprehensive physical model, including low-$\beta$ electromagnetic flux-driven simulations. Our key findings are that electron dynamics is crucial for ITB formation even in an ITG scenario and that having $q_{\text{min}}$ close to a lowest order rational value (2 in our simulations) to allow for eddies self-interaction is a necessary ingredient. Electron dynamics has two critical effects. First, it leads to a structure formation characterized by strong zonal flows shearing rate, reduction of turbulence and profile corrugation. Second, it leads to zonal current sheets that result in a broadening of the minimum-q region, qualitatively consistent with the flux-tube simulations of Vol\v{c}okas et al. [1]. Flux-driven simulations performed with $q_{\text{min}}=2$ reveal the development of the transport barrier in the ion channel, forming at inner and outer radial positions with respect to the $q_{\text{min}}$ position. The ITB formation in flux-driven setup is not recovered if $q_{\text{min}} = 2.03$. Additionally, a simulation at higher $\rho^*$ indicates that the extent of the flattened region of the q-profile due to turbulent self-interaction does not change proportionally to $\rho^*$ or to $\rho_i$, but somewhere in between. On the other hand, the input power required to achieve similar on-axis temperatures appears to exhibit almost GyroBohm scaling (for the two considered $\rho^*$ values). Furthermore, considering an initial q-profile with $q_{\text{min}} = 2.01$, flux-driven simulations show that partial self-interaction can evolve to complete self-interaction. This occurs due to turbulent-driven zonal currents that lower and flatten the q-profile down to $q_{\text{min}} = 2.0$, in line with what is reported in Vol\v{c}okas et al.[1].


---
# PCB Transducer Coil Design for a Low-Noise Magnetic Measurement System in Space Missions

## 用于太空任务中低噪声磁测量系统的PCB换能器线圈设计

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10043

**Authors:** Jose A. V\'ilchez Membrilla, Ignacio Mateos, \'Angel Quir\'os-Oloz\'abal, Mario F. Pantoja, Clemente Cobos S\'anchez

arXiv:2412.10043v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Here a minimum power dissipation coil transducer has been designed to allow in-flight noise characterization of a low-frequency magnetic measurement system. The coil was produced using PCB technology to provide mechanical stability and easy integration close to the magnetic sensors. The transducer design strategy relies on an inverse boundary element method, which has been efficiently adapted to produce optimal multilayer PCB coils subjected to different geometrical and performance constraints. The resulting coil transducer was simulated and experimentally validated under realistic conditions where the payload is magnetically shielded from low-frequency fluctuations by using a three-layer cylindrical mu-metal enclosure. The results show that the specific transducer coil proposed efficiently produces stable magnetic conditions for adequate validation of the magnetic diagnostic system while providing reduced power dissipation and optimal mechanical stability.


---
# Three-dimensional tearing instability of flux-tube-like magnetic fields

## 通量管状磁场的三维撕裂不稳定性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10065

**Authors:** Vinay Kumar, Pallavi Bhat

arXiv:2412.10065v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Magnetic reconnection, a fundamental plasma process, is pivotal in understanding energy conversion and particle acceleration in astrophysical systems. While extensively studied in two-dimensional (2D) configurations, the dynamics of reconnection in three-dimensional (3D) systems remain under-explored. In this work, we extend the classical tearing mode instability to 3D by introducing a modulation along the otherwise uniform direction in a 2D equilibrium, given by $g(y)$, mimicking a flux tube-like configuration. We perform linear stability analysis (both analytically and numerically) and direct numerical simulations to investigate the effects of three-dimensionality. Our findings reveal that the 3D tearing instability exhibits reduced growth rates compared to 2D by a factor of $\int g(y)^{1/2} dy~/\int dy$, with the dispersion relation maintaining similar scaling characteristics. We show that the modulation introduces spatially varying resistive layer properties, which influence the reconnection dynamics. Remarkably, we find that Sweet-Parker scaling for the reconnection rate persists even in the absence of a guide field.


---
# Lower-Hybrid Drift Instabilities in a magnetic nozzle

## 磁喷嘴中的低混合漂移不稳定性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10070

**Authors:** Matteo Ripoli, Eduardo Ahedo, Mario Merino

arXiv:2412.10070v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Magnetic nozzles are a key component of electrodeless plasma thrusters, acting as their main acceleration stage. Non-stationary phenomena common to the entire range of $E \times B$ devices, such as oscillations and instabilities, are likely to exist in the magnetic nozzle, according to the mounting experimental evidence. These mechanisms could lead to anomalous cross-field transport, either enhancing the plasma plume divergence or favoring electron detachment. In this work we present a local linear analysis of fluid instabilities relevant for said devices, expanding on previous works with the addition of plasma inhomogeneities in the direction parallel to the magnetic field, with a rigorous inclusion of the effects of magnetic curvature, finite Larmor radius and $3$D wave propagation, allowing for a general formulation of drift-driven instabilities in partially magnetized plasmas. Instability conditions are first studied analytically, and then applied to simulation data of a helicon plasma thruster. Finally, the effect of instabilities on wave-driven cross-field electron transport is assessed by means of quasi-linear analysis. This study predicts the onset of essentially-azimuthal instabilities in the $1$ kHz--$1$ MHz range, in qualitative agreement with some of the available experimental data, and highlights the importance of including parallel inhomogeneities in the formulation of the dispersion relation of an $E \times B$ plasma, as these gradients may drive instabilities even in the absence of axial propagation. Lastly, quasi-linear analysis suggests that the induced cross-field transport acts to smooth out the zeroth-order drifts which cause the plasma to destabilize in the first place.


---
# Electron Heating by Parallel Electric Fields in Magnetotail Reconnection

## 磁尾重新连接中通过平行电场加热电子

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10188

**Authors:** Louis Richard, Yuri V. Khotyaintsev, Cecilia Norgren, Konrad Steinvall, Daniel B. Graham, Jan Egedal, Andris Vaivads, Rumi Nakamura

arXiv:2412.10188v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We investigate electron heating by magnetic-field-aligned electric fields ($E_\parallel$) during anti-parallel magnetic reconnection in the Earth's magnetotail. Using a statistical sample of 140 reconnection outflows, we infer the acceleration potential associated with $E_\parallel$ from the shape of the electron velocity distribution functions. We show that heating by $E_\parallel$ in the reconnection outflow can reach up to ten times the inflow electron temperature. We demonstrate that the magnitude of the acceleration potential scales with the inflow Alfv\'en and electron thermal speeds to maintain quasi-neutrality in the reconnection region. Our results suggest that $E_\parallel$ plays a major role in the ion-to-electron energy partition associated with magnetic reconnection.


---
# Dynamic Nuclear Polarization Mechanisms using TEMPOL and trityl OX063 radicals at 1 T and 77 K

## 在1 T和77 K下使用TEMPOL和三苯甲基OX063自由基的动态核极化机制

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10325

**Authors:** Ewoud Vaneeckhaute, Charlotte Bocquelet, Nathan Rougier, Shebha Anandhi Jegadeesan, Sanjay Vinod-Kumar, Guinevere Mathies, Roberto Melzi, James Kempf, Quentin Stern, Sami Jannin

arXiv:2412.10325v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: A sensitivity increase of two orders of magnitude in proton (1H) and carbon (13C) spins via dynamic nuclear polarization (DNP) has been accomplished recently using a compact benchtop DNP polarizer operating at 1 T and 77 K. However the DNP mechanisms at play at such low magnetic field and high operating temperature are still not elucidated. A deeper understanding of the dominant polarization transfer mechanisms between electrons and 1H and 13C spins at these unconventional benchtop conditions is therefore required if one wants to devise strategies to boost sensitivity further. In this study, we found that DNP is generally dominated by solid effect for narrow electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) line radicals (15 mM trityl OX063) and cross effect for broad EPR line radicals (50 mM TEMPOL). For both radicals, the dominant DNP mechanisms were investigated varying the microwave frequency and measuring the 1H and 13C DNP enhancement factors to obtain 1H and 13C DNP spectra. The impact of varying the microwave power on the 1H DNP buildup times and the 1H nuclear spin relaxation times were important as well to distinguish between solid effect and cross effect DNP. Finally, time-resolved electron saturation simulations under continuous microwave irradiation could replicate the experimental 1H and 13C DNP spectra at 1 T and 77 K for both radicals considering their electron relaxation properties. Only for trityl OX063, the 13C DNP spectra showed additional DNP maxima compared to the simulations. This has been attributed to methyl rotor induced 1H-13C heteronuclear cross relaxation in [1-13C] acetate present at 1 T and 77 K.


---
# Quantum Imaging with X-rays

## X射线量子成像

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09833

**Authors:** Justin C. Goodrich, Ryan Mahon, Joseph Hanrahan, Dennis Bollweg, Monika Dziubelski, Raphael A. Abrahao, Sanjit Karmakar, Kazimierz J. Gofron, Thomas A. Caswell, Daniel Allan, Lonny Berman, Andrei Nomerotski, Andrei Fluerasu, Cinzia DaVia, Sean McSweeney

arXiv:2412.09833v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Quantum imaging encompasses a broad range of methods that exploit the quantum properties of light to capture information about an object. One such approach involves using a two-photon quantum state, where only one photon interacts with the object being imaged while its entangled partner carries spatial or temporal information. To implement this technique, it is necessary to generate specific quantum states of light and detect photons at the single-photon level. While this method has been successfully demonstrated in the visible electromagnetic spectrum, extending it to X-rays has faced significant challenges due to the difficulties in producing a sufficient rate of X-ray photon pairs and detecting them with adequate resolution. Here, we demonstrate record high rates of correlated X-ray photon pairs produced via a spontaneous parametric down-conversion process and we employ these photons to perform quantum correlation imaging of several objects, including a biological sample (E. cardamomum seedpod). Notably, we report an unprecedented detection rate of about 6,300 pairs per hour and the observation of energy anti-correlation for the X-ray photon pairs. We also present a detailed analysis of the properties of the down-converted X-ray photons, as well as a comprehensive study of the correlation imaging formation, including a study of distortions and corrections. These results mark a substantial advancement in X-ray quantum imaging, expanding the possibilities of X-ray quantum optical technologies, and illustrating the pathway towards enhancing biological imaging with reduced radiation doses.


---
# De-Biasing Structure Function Estimates From Sparse Time Series of the Solar Wind: A Data-Driven Approach

## 从太阳风的稀疏时间序列中去偏结构函数估计: 一种数据驱动的方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10053

**Authors:** Daniel Wrench, Tulasi N. Parashar

arXiv:2412.10053v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Structure functions, which represent the moments of the increments of a stochastic process, are essential complementary statistics to power spectra for analysing the self-similar behaviour of a time series. However, many real-world environmental datasets, such as those collected by spacecraft monitoring the solar wind, contain gaps, which inevitably corrupt the statistics. The nature of this corruption for structure functions remains poorly understood - indeed, often overlooked. Here we simulate gaps in a large set of magnetic field intervals from Parker Solar Probe in order to characterize the behaviour of the structure function of a sparse time series of solar wind turbulence. We quantify the resultant error with regards to the overall shape of the structure function, and its slope in the inertial range. Noting the consistent underestimation of the true curve when using linear interpolation, we demonstrate the ability of an empirical correction factor to de-bias these estimates. This correction, "learnt" from the data from a single spacecraft, is shown to generalize well to data from a solar wind regime elsewhere in the heliosphere, producing smaller errors, on average, for missing fractions >25%. Given this success, we apply the correction to gap-affected Voyager intervals from the inner heliosheath and local interstellar medium, obtaining spectral indices similar to those from previous studies. This work provides a tool for future studies of fragmented solar wind time series, such as those from Voyager, MAVEN, and OMNI, as well as sparsely-sampled astrophysical and geophysical processes more generally.


---
# Flaring together: A preferred angular separation between sympathetic flares on the Sun

## 一起燃烧: 太阳上交感耀斑之间的首选角度间隔

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10143

**Authors:** Louis-Simon Guit\'e, Antoine Strugarek, Paul Charbonneau

arXiv:2412.10143v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Sympathetic solar flares are eruptions that occur nearby in space and time, driven by an apparent interaction between the active regions in which they are triggered. Their statistical existence on the Sun has yet to be firmly established. The main goal of this paper is to identify a statistical signature of sympathetic flares, characterize their properties and determine a potential mechanism driving their interaction. We perform a statistical analysis of a large number of flares observed by the Atmospheric Imaging Assembly (AIA) onboard the Solar Dynamics Observatory (SDO), the Reuven Ramaty High Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager (RHESSI) and the Spectrometer Telescope for Imaging X-rays (STIX) on Solar Orbiter during solar cycle 24 and 25. We examine the spatiotemporal distribution of consecutive flare pairs across solar cycle phases and hemispheres, along with the propagation velocity of potential causal interactions and the relationship between flare magnitudes. We observe an excess of hemispheric flares separated by about 30 degrees of longitude and triggered in less than 1.5 hours from each other. This peak in angular separation varies with the solar cycle phase and hemisphere. Moreover, we identify a deficit of transequatorial events separated by 25-30 degrees in latitude and less than 5 degrees in longitude, a phenomenon we term unsympathetic flares. We provide strong statistical evidence for the existence of sympathetic flares on the Sun, demonstrating that their occurrence rate reaches approximately 5% across the three instruments used in this study. Additionally, we propose an interpretation of the observed angular scale of the sympathetic phenomenon, based on the separation between magnetic field line footpoints derived from potential field source surface extrapolations.


---
# Does light slowdown in dielectric media?

## 电介质中的光会减速吗？

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.02766

**Authors:** Vernon Cooray, Gerald Cooray, Farhad Rachidi, Marcos Rubinstein

arXiv:2403.02766v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Observations and theoretical principles suggest that electromagnetic waves, including light, travel more slowly in dielectric media than in vacuum. Maxwell's equations, incorporating material dependent permittivity and permeability, elegantly capture this effect. Previous studies indicate that the observed slower speed is due to interference effects, with the actual electromagnetic fields in the dielectric propagating at the speed of light in vacuum. However, these studies did not provide explicit expressions for the field components moving at this speed. The aim of the present study is to address this gap by analysing the structure of the electromagnetic field components within the dielectric. We examine how these components, each traveling at the speed of light in vacuum, interact to produce a net field that appears to propagate more slowly. Our findings show that the observed slower propagation in dielectric media results from interference between two types of waves: a forward moving incident wave and a set of secondary waves, moving both in the forward and backward directions, and induced by the interaction of the incident wave with the dielectric medium. Both the incident wave and the secondary waves travel at the speed of light in vacuum. Importantly, we observe that the reflected wave caused by the impedance discontinuity at the boundary of the dielectric medium arises from secondary waves moving in the direction opposite to the incident wave.


---
# Ultrafast Spin Rotation of Relativistic Lepton Beams via Terahertz Wave in a Dielectric-Lined Waveguide

## 介质衬里波导中相对论轻子束通过太赫兹波的超快自旋旋转

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07709

**Authors:** Zhong-Peng Li, Yu Wang, Ting Sun, Feng Wan, Yousef I. Salamin, Mamutjan Ababekri, Qian Zhao, Kun Xue, Ye Tian, Wen-Qing Wei, Jian-Xing Li

arXiv:2405.07709v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Spin rotation is central for the spin-manipulation of lepton beams which, in turn, plays an important role in investigation of the properties of spin-polarized lepton beams and the examination of spin-dependent interactions. However, realization of compact and ultrafast spin rotation of lepton beams, between longitudinal and transverse polarizations, still faces significant challenges. Here, we put forward a novel method for ultrafast (picosecond-timescale) spin rotation of a relativistic lepton beam via employing a moderate-intensity terahertz (THz) wave in a dielectric-lined waveguide (DLW). The lepton beam undergoes spin precession induced by the THz magnetic field. We find that optimizing the lepton velocity and THz phase velocity in the DLW can mitigate the impact of transverse Lorentz forces on the lepton beam and increase the precession frequency, thereby maintaining the beam quality and enhancing the efficiency of transverse-to-longitudinal spin rotation. The final polarization degree of the lepton beam exceeds $98\%$, and the energy spread can be improved significantly. Flexibility in adjusting the electromagnetic modes within the DLW adds further potential for spin-manipulation, and holds promise for advancing the development of spin-polarized particle beams, which have broad applications in materials science and atomic, nuclear, and high-energy physics.


---
# On the stability of the $m=1$ rigid ballooning mode in a mirror trap with high-beta sloshing ions

## 关于具有高 β 晃动离子的镜阱中 $ m = 1 $ 刚性膨胀模式的稳定性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.10488

**Authors:** Igor Kotelnikov

arXiv:2406.10488v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Stability of the ``rigid'' $m = 1$ ballooning mode in a mirror axisymmetric trap is studied for the case of oblique neutral beam injection (NBI), which creates an anisotropic population of fast sloshing ions. Since small-scale modes with azimuthal numbers $m>1$ in long thin (paraxial) mirror traps are easily stabilized by finite Larmor radius (FLR) effects, suppression of the rigid ballooning and flute modes would mean stabilization of all MHD modes, with the exception of mirror and fire-hose disturbances, which are intensively studied in geophysics, but have not yet been identified in mirror traps.
  Large-scale ballooning mode can, in principle, be suppressed either by the lateral perfectly conducting wall, or by the end MHD anchors such as cusp, or by biased limiters, or by combination of these two methods. The effect of the wall shape, vacuum gap width between the plasma column and the lateral wall, angle of oblique NBI, radial profile of the plasma pressure, and axial profile of the vacuum magnetic field are studied.


---
# Derivation and physical interpretation of the general solutions to the wave equations for electromagnetic potentials

## 电磁势波动方程通解的推导和物理解释

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.03362

**Authors:** Valerica Raicu

arXiv:2411.03362v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: The inhomogeneous wave equations for the scalar, vector, and Hertz potentials are derived starting from retarded charge, current, and polarization densities and then solved in the reciprocal (or k-) space to obtain general solutions, which are formulated as nested integrals of such densities over the source volume, k-space, and time. The solutions thus obtained are inherently free of spatial singularities and do not require introduction by fiat of combinations of advanced and retarded terms as done previously to cure such singularities for the point-charge model. Physical implications of these general solutions are discussed in the context of specific examples involving either the real or reciprocal space forms of the different potentials. The present approach allows for k-space expansions of the potentials for arbitrary distributions of charges and may lead to applications in condensed matter and fluorescence-based imaging.


---
# Powerful source of bremsstrahlung x-ray radiation based on a high current pulsed electron accelerator

## 基于大电流脉冲电子加速器的强致辐射x射线辐射源

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.01403

**Authors:** A. B. Batrakov, I. N. Onishchenko, S. I. Fedotov, E. G. Glushko, O. L. Rak, A. O. Zinchenko

arXiv:2412.01403v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Enhancement of the bremsstrahlung X-ray radiation (BSXR) power generated by the high-current relativistic electron beam (REB) of a pulsed direct-action accelerator TEMP-B is being curried out to use in particular for studying the radiation resistance of walls material of radioactive waste containers. For this the magnetic field in which REB is transported in the drift chamber is taken higher at some distance before the converter to provide REB diameter on the converter the same as in the drift chamber. Scheme of power supply and creation of the required magnetic field for the REB current transportation through the whole distance from the diode to the converter is developed. Higher BSXR dose per REB current pulse at the same energy resource is obtained.


---
# Analytical model for the frequency behavior of two distinct modes in nano-constriction spin Hall nano-oscillator

## 纳米收缩自旋霍尔纳米振荡器中两种不同模式频率行为的解析模型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09277

**Authors:** H. Ghanatian, M. Rajabali, R. Khymyn, A. Kumar, V. H. Gonz\'alez, H. Farkhani, J. {\AA}kerman, F. Moradi

arXiv:2412.09277v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Nano-constriction spin-Hall nano-oscillators (NC-SHNOs) have garnered considerable interest due to their potential use as efficient and adjustable nano-sized sources of microwave signals, with high-frequency tunability, adaptable design layout, and CMOS compatibility. In order to facilitate system- and circuit-level designs based on the NC-SHNOs, it is essential to have an analytical model capable of predicting the behavior of the NC-SHNO. In this paper, we introduce an analytical model to describe the frequency behavior of a single NC-SHNO in an in-plane magnetic field while considering the Oersted field. The model is divided into two regions based on the direct current value: the "linear-like" and "bullet" modes. Each region is characterized by distinct concepts and equations. The first region, the "linear-like mode," emerges from the nano-constriction edges and progresses toward the center of the active area of the NC-SHNO. In contrast, the second regime, the localized "bullet mode," exhibits negative nonlinearity, where increasing the current will lead to a decrease in frequency. The model's validity is confirmed through experimental data obtained from electrical RF measurements on a single 180nm wide NC-SHNO, and the model demonstrates excellent agreement with experimental data.


---
# Plasmon Enhanced Photocatalysis with Group IV Metal Nitride and TiO2 Composites: Rhodamine B Dye Degradation Case Study

## IV族金属氮化物和TiO2复合材料的等离子体增强光催化: 罗丹明b染料降解案例研究

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-2tbwv?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Mita, Dasog

Traditional photocatalysis often employs TiO2 for its affordability and safety, but its large bandgap (>3 eV) limits solar absorption to under 5%. Plasmonic materials serve as sensitizers to expand absorption into the visible and near-IR spectrum while generating localized electromagnetic fields, hot carriers, and heat to boost catalytic efficiency. While noble metals have been extensively studied for visible light absorption, their high cost and poor oxidative stability have spurred interest in alternative plasmonic materials. Transition metal nitrides, such as TiN, ZrN, and HfN, offer strong absorption in the visible and near-IR regions and are cost-effective. In this study, TiN, ZrN, and HfN were combined with traditional P25 TiO2 to yield composite materials and their photocatalytic activity was evaluated by monitoring rhodamine B dye degradation. Under optimized conditions and 100 mW cm-2 illumination, degradation efficiencies of 96, 71, and 99% were observed for TiN/TiO2, ZrN/TiO2, and HfN/TiO2, respectively. Reaction temperature and power density studies allude to reaction efficiency enhancement due to a hot carrier driven process in TiN/TiO2 and ZrN/TiO2 systems. In the case of HfN/TiO2, photothermal contributions are likely to be significant.


---
# Altermagnetism: A Chemical Perspective

## 磁: 化学观点

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-bst3p-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Kwabena, Bediako

Altermagnets have been recently introduced as a classification of collinear, spin compensated magnetic materials that host net-zero magnetization, yet display some electronic behaviors typically associated with non-compensated magnetic materials like ferromagnets. The emergence of such properties are a consequence of spin-split bands that arise under specific symmetry conditions in the limit of zero spin–orbit coupling. In this Perspective, we summarize the fundamental criteria for realizing an altermagnetic phase and present a qualitative electronic band structure derivation and symmetry analysis through chemical principles. We then discuss the properties that make altermagnets distinctive candidates for charge-to-spin conversion elements in spintronic devices, and provide a brief review of some altermagnetic candidate materials. Finally, we discuss future directions for altermagnetism and highlight opportunities for chemists to advance this emerging field.


---
# Magnetic carboxylated cellulose nanocrystals for pullulanase immobilization: enhanced enzyme activity and reusability

## 用于固定普鲁兰酶的磁性羧化纤维素纳米晶体: 增强的酶活性和可重复使用性

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-3sn0d?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Songqing , Hu

In the realm of enzyme immobilization, challenges such as decreased activity post-immobilization and insufficient reusability are frequently encountered. In this paper, carboxylated cellulose nanocrystals (CNCs) obtained from deep eutectic solvent (DES) pretreatment were used for the synthesis of magnetic CNCs (MCNCs), which served as a carrier for enzyme immobilization. The results demonstrated that the hydrophilic carboxyl groups introduced on MCNCs by DES pretreatment are beneficial for enhancing the activity and reusability of immobilized pullulanases. Based on activity and reusability, we further optimized the immobilization conditions and catalytic temperature. Under the optimal conditions, compared to free enzymes, the relative activity of immobilized pullulanase increased to 162.24%, and it maintained 95.07% of its initial activity after 15 cycles of reuse. Overall, our findings highlight the potential of immobilizing pullulanase on MCNC to enhance enzyme activity and reusability.


---
# Indications for a Direct Singlet Fission Mechanism in TIPS-Pentacene Crystals from Hybrid DFT/MRCI and Molecular Mechanics Studies

## 混合DFT/MRCI和分子力学研究表明TIPS-并五苯晶体中直接单线态裂变机理的迹象

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-nqqbn?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Simon, Hédé

A hybrid quantum mechanics/molecular mechanics setup was used to model the singlet fission (SF) of electronically excited 6,13-bis(triisopropylsilylethynyl)pentacene (TIPS-pentacene) in the crystalline phase. The optically bright S^bright_1 state possesses nearly identical excitation
energies and oscillator strengths in the two nonequivalent dimer units with large and small structural overlap, respectively. A shearing/tilting motion of the two slip-stacked TIPS-pentacene building blocks is the key for stabilizing the singlet-coupled triplet-pair state, ^1(TT),
in the large/small overlap situation. In both dimer models, the S^bright_1 and ^1(TT) states swap energetic order upon geometry relaxation, indicative of strong nonadiabatic coupling between these states and a direct SF mechanism in TIPS-pentacene crystals, at variance with unsubstituted
pentacene. The overall energy balance E(S^bright_1 )  -(E(T_1)+E(T_1)) remains positive at all investigated nuclear arrangements. Charge-transfer states and the ferromagnetically coupled ^5(TT) state lie energetically too high for taking part in the SF mechanism.


---
# Capturing and labeling CO2 in a jar: Mechanochemical 17O-Enrichment and ssNMR study of Sodium and Potassium (bi)carbonate Salts

## 在广口瓶中捕获和标记CO2: 钠和钾 (bi) 碳酸盐的机械化学17o富集和ssNMR研究

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-04r36-v3?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Nicolas, Fabregue

With the rapid increase in temperatures around the planet, the need to develop efficient means to reduce CO2 emissions has become one of the greatest challenges of the scientific community. Many different strategies are being studied worldwide, one of which consists of trapping the gas into porous materials, either for its short- or long-term capture and storage, or its re-use for the production of value-added compounds. Yet, to further the development of such systems, there is a real need to fully understand their structure and properties, including at the molecular-level following the physisorption and/or chemisorption of CO2 (which can lead to various species, including carbonate and bicarbonate ions). In this context, 17O NMR naturally appears as the analytical tool of choice, because of its exquisite sensitivity to probe subtle differences in oxygen bonding environments. To date, it has scarcely been used, due to the very low natural abundance of 17O (0.04%), and the absence of commercially accessible 17O-labeled compounds adapted to such investigations (e.g., 17O-CO2(g), or 17O-enriched Na- and K- (bi)carbonate salts, which can be readily transformed into CO2). Herein, we demonstrate how, using mechanochemistry, it is possible to enrich with 17O a variety of Na- and K- (bi)carbonate salts in a fast, economical, scalable, and user-friendly way. The high enrichment levels enabled recording the first high-resolution 17O ssNMR spectra of these phases at different temperatures and magnetic fields. From these, the typical spectral signatures of (bi)carbonate ions could be obtained, showing their strong sensitivity to local environments and dynamics. Lastly, we show how thanks to the selective 17O-labeling, other aspects of the reactivity of carbonates in materials can be unveiled using in-situ 17O ssNMR. In the long run, it is expected that this work will open the way to more profound investigations of the structure and properties of carbon capture and storage systems, and, more generally speaking, of functional materials containing carbonates.


---
# Disrupted topological organization of brain connectome in patients with chronic low back-related leg pain and correlations with clinical characteristics

## 慢性腰腿痛患者脑连接体拓扑结构的破坏及其与临床特征的相关性

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5404952/latest

Chronic pain is associated with persistent alterations in brain structure and function. However, existing research has not fully explored the relationship between brain network topological properties and clinical symptoms in patients with chronic low back-related leg pain (cLBLP). In this study, we collected resting-state functional and structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data, along with clinical symptom evaluation data, from 32 cLBLP patients and 31 healthy controls. A large-scale complex network analysis was conducted to evaluate the global and nodal topological properties of functional and structural brain networks. Statistical analyses were performed to determine the associations between network properties and clinical variables. The results showed significant alterations in both global and nodal topological properties of functional and structural brain networks in cLBLP patients compared to healthy controls. Notably, nodal properties of functional brain networks were also altered in patients. Additionally, a direct correlation was found between structural network properties and spatial discrimination ability, measured by two-point tactile discrimination (2-PD) values, while no significant association was observed between functional connectivity and spatial discrimination. This study demonstrates that alterations in the structural connectome, rather than the functional connectome, play a more significant role in deterioration of foot tactile spatial acuity in cLBLP patients.


---
# Quantified motility assessment in paediatric inflammatory bowel disease: a multi-reader study

## 小儿炎症性肠病的定量运动评估: 一项多读者研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5433995/latest

Background
Quantitative bowel motility in inflammatory bowel disease using magnetic resonance enterography (MRE) shows promise as a biomarker of disease activity against histopathological and biochemical markers of inflammation when used by experienced readers in a research setting.
Objective
The aim of this study was to test multi-reader agreement in quantified bowel motility by non-experienced readers.
Methods
A single centre, retrospective search included all patients &amp;lt;18 years with paediatric inflammatory bowel disease and more than one MRE between 2012-2022. Cine images from the first two MREs were processed using quantified motility software. Two experienced readers provided a reference standard for response using a consensus sMaRIA (decrease of &ge;2 points) and measured the change (&Delta;) in motility index. Two senior and three junior readers visually assessed response for each patient, and recorded &Delta; motility index. Inter-reader agreement was assessed for each pair of readers as the Bland-Altman bias and limits of agreement for &Delta; motility index (arbitrary units, a.u.) and %agreement in the &Delta;direction.
Results
Percentage agreement in the &Delta;direction was fair to excellent: 84% (95% CI 75 to 93) between junior readers, 61% (95% CI 50 to 73) between senior readers, and 84% (95% CI 75 to 93) between experienced readers. Bland-Altman plots of &Delta;MI demonstrated no systematic bias and the junior readers&rsquo; limits of agreement were comparable to that of experienced readers.
Conclusion
Quantified bowel motility in paediatric inflammatory bowel disease measured by readers of varied experience yields good agreement.


---
# Beyond Aneurysms, Subarachnoid Hemorrhage Unraveling Dural Venous Sinus Thrombosis: A Rare Case Report

## 除动脉瘤外，蛛网膜下腔出血导致硬脑膜静脉窦血栓形成: 罕见病例报告

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5394133/latest

Background Dural venous sinus thrombosis (DVST) can be challenging for clinicians, especially when presenting with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH)-like symptoms. DVST presents with headache, vision loss, paralysis and seizures.Case presentation: We report a case of a 22-year-old male with left-sided weakness, severe headache and loss of consciousness. Examination revealed left-sided weakness and optic disc blurring. Lumbar puncture showed numerous RBCs. MRI brain with Magnetic Resonance Venography (MRV) revealed &amp;ldquo;left transverse and sigmoid venous sinus thrombosis and minimal subarachnoid hemorrhage.&amp;rdquo; A diagnosis of SAH secondary to DVST was made. The patient was treated with Apixaban, resulting in resolution of DVST and SAH.Conclusion This case highlights the need for early recognition of DVST in SAH patients lacking aneurysmal components or basal cistern involvement and its management with anticoagulation if hemodynamically stable.


---
# Status epilepticus induced by etanercept biosimilar: a rare case report

## 依那西普生物仿制药致癫痫持续状态罕见病例报告

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5407274/latest

Objective To emphasizes the likelihood of seizure adverse effects linked to rhTNFR-Fc biosimilar.Methods A 74-year-old male patient with rheumatoid arthritis experienced a status epilepticus induced by rhTNFR-Fc, which was diagnosed on the basis of brain magnetic resonance imaging and electroencephalography. Anti-TNF medications, including the etanercept biosimilar rhTNFR-Fc, have been linked to the occurrence of seizures. In the event of a seizure adverse event (AE), it is recommended that the suspected drug be discontinued and anti-epileptic drugs be administered to control the seizure.Results The administration of rhTNFR-Fc was terminated, and the seizure was managed through the maintenance of levetiracetam and valproic acid treatment.Conclusion The rhTNFR-Fc biosimilar may cause seizure adverse effects in patients without any prior history and signifies the critical importance of a neurological assessment and close clinical monitoring being performed in patients with pre-existing seizure disorders before and during therapy with TNF-&alpha; inhibitors.


---
# Seepage mode in lamina-developed shale oil reservoirs under strong heterogeneous and strong fluid-solid coupling&mdash;&mdash;Taking Jiyang Depression in China as an example

## 强非均质和强流固耦合条件下层状发育的页岩油储层渗流模式 -- 以济阳坳陷为例

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5376772/latest

The laminae of different lithologies is a typical sedimentation of shale oil reservoirs, and the resulting strong heterogeneous and strong fluid-solid coupling seriously affect shale oil productivity. Therefore, the strong permeability heterogeneous and mechanical heterogeneous of lamina-developed shale were first qualified by the permeability experiments and quasi triaxial mechanical experiments on shale cores of different directions from Jiyang Depression, which revealed strong brittleness in horizontal cores and elasticity in vertical cores. Then, the strong fluid-solid coupling in lamina-developed shale was investigated by permeability stress sensitivity test and CT scanning, which presents the elasticity deformation of matrix in vertical direction, resulting in dynamic opening and closing of laminae and strong fluid-solid coupling in horizontal direction during the fracturing shut-in and production (FSP). Based on online nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), fluid migration between pores of different scales and laminae during the FSP was discovered. To detailedly describe the fluid seepage mode in lamina-developed shale oil reservoirs during FSP, an oil-water two-phase flow model coupling shale matrix, laminae and hydraulic fractures was simulated to describe the variation in saturation, pressure, relative permeability, and streamlines of water in lamina-developed shale cores, based on the permeability heterogeneous and stress sensitivity. The results show that During the hydraulic fracturing, the horizontal brittleness and vertical elasticity created a seepage channel of shale matrix, horizontal seams and vertical hydraulic fractures. During the shut-in, the expanded seepage area after the laminae are opened and the extremely high pressure gradient from the seam to the matrix cause the fracturing fluid to invade the matrix and displace some shale oil, gradually balancing the pressure among the three seepage media. During the production, the extremely high pressure gradient shifts from the matrix to seams and hydraulic fractures, and oil and water are simultaneously extracted. However, due to stress sensitivity and relative permeability variation, some fracturing fluids remain in the shale formation.


---
# Pilot feasibility study to determine the utility of direct access and quantitative magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) in the assessment of suspected acute biliary or ductal gallstone presentations.

## 试点可行性研究，以确定直接进入和定量磁共振胰胆管造影 (MRCP) 在评估可疑的急性胆道或导管胆结石表现中的实用性。

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5123888/latest

Background
Patients with suspected acute gallstone disease typically undergo abdominal ultrasound. MRCP is often used for patients with abnormal LFTs, potentially making ultrasound unnecessary for this group. Despite high inter-reader variability in MRCP interpretation, new AI technologies may automate and standardize detection and measurement.
Method
Patients with suspected acute gallstone disease and abnormal liver function tests were randomized into two diagnostic pathways, direct MRCP and standard care. Admission data, healthcare resource use, and clinical outcomes were recorded. National Health Service national 20/21 tariffs were used to calculate and compare healthcare costs. MRCP scans were subsequently analysed using MRCP&thinsp;+&thinsp;software (Perspectum Ltd).
Results
27 participants were enrolled over 12 months, 15 to direct MRCP and 11 to standard care. One patient was excluded from analysis. Mean patient time to diagnostic report and mean per patient associated direct medical cost and mean cost to diagnosis for the direct MRCP and standard of care group was 2.53 days, &pound;449.54, and &pound;647 respectively for the direct MRCP group and 4.18 days costing &pound;742.06 and &pound;896 for standard care. MRCP&thinsp;+&thinsp;analysis of 11 scans showed significant differences between the groups in terms of gallbladder volume (80.2mm3 gallstone present versus 30.1mm3 without, p&thinsp;=&thinsp;0.018 and cystic duct median width (4.6mm gallstone present versus 2.7mm without, p&thinsp;=&thinsp;0.042).
Conclusions
Direct MRCP may be a feasible and potentially cost-effective diagnostic strategy for patients with suspected acute gallstone disease and deranged LFTs. Automated measurement of MRCP parameters shows promise in detecting obstruction. Larger trials are warranted to assess this potential.
Registration details
This study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT03709030).


---
# Static magnetic field inhibits Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition (EMT) and metastasis of glioma

## 静磁场抑制胶质瘤上皮-间质转化和转移

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5377488/latest

Gliomas show suboptimal responses to conventional treatments, with tumor cell migration remaining a formidable challenge in glioma therapy. Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition (EMT) facilitates invasion of glioma cells, and transforming growth factor &beta;1 serves as a potent factor promoting proliferation, migration, and EMT in glioblastoma (GBM). Magnetic fields have been widely applied in the diagnosis and treatment of various diseases, but their effects on the EMT process in glioma cells remain unclear. In this study, we investigated whether a static magnetic field (SMF) could inhibit EMT and metastasis in glioma cells. Conduct functional analysis using U251 and U87 glioma cell lines. The results indicated that cells treated with TGF-&beta;1 increased invasion and migration capabilities, while showing reduced apoptosis. However, when SMFs were combined with TGF-&beta;1 treatment, there was a notable suppression of cell migration and invasion, accompanied by an increase in apoptosis. Additionally, this combination treatment significantly decreased the protein expression of mesenchymal markers N-cadherin and &beta;-catenin, as well as reduced the levels of the recombinant protein MMP-2. Collectively, these findings suggest that SMFs may reduce glioma cell metastasis by inhibiting EMT. Therefore, SMFs could represent a promising therapeutic strategy for diminishing glioma metastasis.


---
# Evaluation of renal oxidative stress in patients with chronic kidney disease using 64 Cu-ATSM PET/MRI

## 64 cu-atsm PET/MRI评价慢性肾脏病患者肾脏氧化应激

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5202422/latest

The purpose of the study was to investigate renal oxidative stress (OS) and its relationship with disease severity in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) using positron emission tomography coupled with magnetic resonance imaging (PET/MRI), employing 64Cu-diacetyl-bis(N4-methylthiosemicarbazonate) (64Cu-ATSM) as the PET tracer for OS imaging. Thirty patients with CKD (66.4&amp;thinsp;&amp;plusmn;&amp;thinsp;8.2 y.o.) and seven healthy controls (HC) subjects (58.3&amp;thinsp;&amp;plusmn;&amp;thinsp;3.8 y.o.) underwent 64Cu-ATSM PET/MRI. Participants were categorized into three groups based on their estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR): HC, mild CKD (stages 2-3a), and advanced CKD (stages 3b-5). All subjects underwent 30-min dynamic PET/MRI starting with the injection of 64Cu-ATSM to evaluate renal blood flow (RBF) and OS levels. RBF (mL/min/100g) images were calculated from the first 3 min PET data, and standardized uptake value (SUV) images were obtained from delayed frames of 15&amp;ndash;30 min after injection. The 64Cu-ATSM SUV images were corrected using individual RBF images to estimate the OS levels of individual kidneys using the following equation: OS index = (SUV/RBF)x100. Significant correlation was observed between eGFR and RBF (r&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.81, P&amp;thinsp;&amp;lt;&amp;thinsp;0.001). RBF in patients with advanced CKD is significantly lower than that in HC (P&amp;thinsp;&amp;lt;&amp;thinsp;0.001) and patients with mild CKD (P&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.004). 64Cu-ATSM SUV did not differ significantly among the three groups (P&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.171). 64Cu-ATSM SUVs did not correlate with creatinine in the HC subjects or in the patients with CKD. However, these values did correlate with eGFR (r&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.33, P&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.049) in all subjects, whereas the CKD patients showed no significant correlation. Following RBF correction, the OS index demonstrated significant correlations with creatinine (r&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.75, P&amp;thinsp;&amp;lt;&amp;thinsp;0.001), eGFR (r= -0.65, P&amp;thinsp;&amp;lt;&amp;thinsp;0.001), and CKD stages (r&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.57, P&amp;thinsp;&amp;lt;&amp;thinsp;0.001) in all subjects. This preliminary study has revealed that 64Cu-ATSM PET may provide a reasonable estimate of renal OS reasonably in CKD patients noninvasively. Increased OS index values were correlated with the CKD stages and creatinine levels, suggesting that OS increases with the severity of renal dysfunction.


---
# Based on the resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging reveals the causal relationship between the brain function network and the risk of tinnitus: a bidirectional Mendelian randomization analysis

## 基于静息态功能磁共振成像揭示脑功能网络与耳鸣风险的因果关系: 双向孟德尔随机化分析

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5115233/latest

Objectives Tinnitus affects millions worldwide. Its neural mechanisms remain unclear. This study aimed to explore the causal relationships between brain functional networks and tinnitus risk using Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses.Methods We performed MR analyses using brain activity data from resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rsfMRI) and genetic data from genome-wide association studies (GWAS). A total of 191 brain features, including amplitude traits and functional connectivity measures, were selected based on their genetic associations.Results Forward MR analyses showed that increased activity in the parietal and inferior frontal regions was associated with a 41% reduction in tinnitus risk (OR&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.59, p&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;1.8 &amp;times; 10&amp;ndash;4). In contrast, increased activity in the precuneus, angular gyrus, and frontal areas was linked to a 49% increase in tinnitus risk (OR&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;1.49, p&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;8.9 &amp;times; 10&amp;ndash;4). Activities in the parietal and inferior frontal regions were negatively correlated with tinnitus risk (OR&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.72, p&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.0037). Additionally, higher activity in the parietal, frontal, and temporal regions doubled the risk (OR&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;2.02, p&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.015). Reverse MR showed that stronger connectivity between frontal and temporal regions was inversely related to tinnitus risk (OR&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.95, p&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.049).Conclusions Specific brain activity and connectivity patterns are causally linked to tinnitus.


---
# A Semi-Empirical Model for Fracture Energy Evaluation of a Ni2MnGa Magnetic Shape Memory Alloy

## 用于评估Ni2MnGa磁性形状记忆合金断裂能的半经验模型

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5456761/latest

Ni2MnGa magnetic shape memory alloys (MSMAs) experience the shape memory effect due to magnetic field-induced or mechanical stress-induced microstructure reorientation. Crack nucleation and growth in Ni2MnGa is impacted by the alloy's evolving twin microstructure under magneto-mechanical loading conditions, eventually hampering its function in applications. This study reports on the evaluation of the fracture energy of a Ni2MnGa alloy under various magneto-mechanical loading conditions. The fracture energy of the alloy was evaluated through Vickers microindentation experiments that allowed the investigation of crack nucleation and growth under various magneto-mechanical loading conditions. The length of the cracks and the dimensions of the microindentation impressions were used to develop a semi-empirical relationship that predicts the fracture energy of the alloy as a function of magneto-mechanical loading conditions. The results confirm that the magnetic field (particularly the transversely applied magnetic field) facilitates crack growth, decreasing the fracture energy, while axial compressive stress impedes crack growth, increasing the fracture energy of the alloy. The proposed empirical relationship for the evaluation of fracture energy helps identify the magneto-mechanical loading conditions that are least conducive to fracture initiation and growth in MSMAs.

