# Quantum entanglement of XY-type spin dimers in Shastry-Sutherland lattice

## Shastry-sutherland晶格中XY型自旋二聚体的量子纠缠

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.17913

**Authors:** Qianli Ma, Brianna R. Billingsley, Madalynn Marshall, David A. Dahlbom, Yiqing Hao, Daniel M. Pajerowski, Alexander I. Kolesnikov, Xiaojian Bai, Cristian D. Batista, Tai Kong, Huibo Cao

arXiv:2412.17913v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We report a comprehensive study on the origin of the enigmatic disordered ground state within the Shastry-Sutherland lattice, BaCe$_2$ZnS$_5$, at low temperatures. The magnetization and heat capacity data show a lack of magnetic ordering down to 73 mK. We deploy a localized spin dimer model which can accurately reproduce the dynamic structure factor of the neutron data, magnetization and heat capacity data. Remarkably, the intra-dimer exchange interaction shows strong XY-type anisotropy and the ground state of BaCe$_2$ZnS$_5$ is in an entangled state $(|\uparrow\uparrow> - |\downarrow\downarrow>)/\sqrt{2}$. This is in contrast to the singlet dimer state that is obtained for Heisenberg interactions. These results confirm that BaCe$_2$ZnS$_5$ is in a quantum paramagnet state consisting of entangled spin dimer states.


---
# Growth of bulk crystals of magnetic topological insulators under peritectic conditions

## 包晶条件下磁性拓扑绝缘体块状晶体的生长

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.17915

**Authors:** Anton I. Sergeev, Alexander S. Frolov, Nadezhda V. Vladimirova, Arseny A. Naumov, Maria Kirsanova, Mark A. Naumov, Vasily S. Stolyarov, Vladimir A. Golyashov, Oleg E. Tereshchenko, Ilya I. Klimovskikh, Marina E. Tamm, Lada V. Yashina

arXiv:2412.17915v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Magnetic topological materials (MTIs) including MnBi$_2$Te$_4$ are of scientific interest due to the possibility to reveal the interplay between topological and magnetic orders. For these materials preparation issues are still challenging. In our paper we report new synthetic protocol using two-phase source in Bridgman-like growth procedure. We applied it to grow a number of TIs of GeAs$_2$Te$_4$ structural type including individual compounds MnBi$_2$Te$_4$, MnSb$_2$Te$_4$, GeBi$_2$Te$_4$, SnBi$_2$Te$_4$, PbBi$_2$Te$_4$ and several mixed crystals of whole range of compositions: Mn(Bi,Sb)$_2$Te$_4$, (Ge,Mn)Bi$_2$Te$_4$, new materials Mn(Bi,In)$_2$Te$_4$. The method developed can be used to obtain single crystals of any incongruently melted compounds with small region of primary crystallization from melt in the corresponding equilibrium phase diagrams.


---
# Entropy spectroscopy of a bilayer graphene quantum dot

## 双层石墨烯量子点的熵谱研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18000

**Authors:** Christoph Adam, Hadrien Duprez, Natalie Lehmann, Antoni Yglesias, Solenn Cances, Max Josef Ruckriegel, Michele Masseroni, Chuyao Tong, Artem Olegovich Denisov, Wei Wister Huang, David Kealhofer, Rebekka Garreis, Kenji Watanabe, Takashi Taniguchi, Klaus Ensslin, Thomas Ihn

arXiv:2412.18000v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We measure the entropy change of charge transitions in an electrostatically defined quantum dot in bilayer graphene. Entropy provides insights into the equilibrium thermodynamic properties of both ground and excited states beyond transport measurements. For the one-carrier regime, the obtained entropy shows that the ground state has a two-fold degeneracy lifted by an out-of-plane magnetic field. This observation is in agreement with previous direct transport measurements and confirms the applicability of this novel method. For the two-carrier regime, the extracted entropy indicates a non-degenerate ground state at zero magnetic field, contrary to previous studies suggesting a three-fold degeneracy. We attribute the degeneracy lifting to the effect of Kane-Mele type spin-orbit interaction on the two-carrier ground state, which has not been observed before. Our work demonstrates the validity and efficacy of entropy measurements as a unique, supplementary experimental tool to investigate the degeneracy of the ground state in quantum devices build in materials such as graphene. This technique, applied to exotic systems with fractional ground state entropies, will be a powerful tool in the study of quantum matter.


---
# Roadmap on Quantum Magnetic Materials

## 量子磁性材料路线图

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18020

**Authors:** Antonija Grubi\v{s}i\'c-\v{C}abo, Marcos H. D. Guimar\~aes, Dmytro Afanasiev, Jose H. Garcia Aguilar, Irene Aguilera, Mazhar N. Ali, Semonti Bhattacharyya, Yaroslav M. Blanter, Rixt Bosma, Zhiyuan Cheng, Zhiying Dan, Saroj P. Dash, Joaqu\'in Medina Due\~nas, Joaqu\'in Fernandez-Rossier, Marco Gibertini, Sergii Grytsiuk, Maurits J. A. Houmes, Anna Isaeva, Chrystalla Knekna, Arnold H. Kole, Samer Kurdi, Jose Lado, Samuel Ma\~nas-Valero, J. Marcelo J. Lopes, Damiano Marian, Mengxing Na, Falk Pabst, Sergio Barquero Pierantoni, Mexx Regout, Riccardo Reho, Malte R\"osner, David Sanz, Toeno van der Sar, Jagoda S{\l}awi\'nska, Matthieu J. Verstraete, Muhammad Waseem, Herre S. J. van der Zant, Zeila Zanolli, David Soriano

arXiv:2412.18020v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Fundamental research on two-dimensional (2D) magnetic systems based on van der Waals materials has been gaining traction rapidly since their recent discovery. With the increase of recent knowledge, it has become clear that such materials have also a strong potential for applications in devices that combine magnetism with electronics, optics, and nanomechanics. Nonetheless, many challenges still lay ahead. Several fundamental aspects of 2D magnetic materials are still unknown or poorly understood, such as their often-complicated electronic structure, optical properties, and magnetization dynamics, and their magnon spectrum. To elucidate their properties and facilitate integration in devices, advanced characterization techniques and theoretical frameworks need to be developed or adapted. Moreover, developing synthesis methods which increase critical temperatures and achieve large-scale, high-quality homogeneous thin films is crucial before these materials can be used for real-world applications. Therefore, the field of 2D magnetic materials provides many challenges and opportunities for the discovery and exploration of new phenomena, as well as the development of new applications. This Roadmap presents the background, challenges, and potential research directions for various relevant topics in the field on the fundamentals, synthesis, characterization, and applications. We hope that this work can provide a strong starting point for young researchers in the field and provide a general overview of the key challenges for more experienced researchers.


---
# Collinear Altermagnets and their Landau Theories

## 共线高磁及其朗道理论

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18025

**Authors:** Hana Schiff, Paul McClarty, Jeffrey G. Rau, Judit Romhanyi

arXiv:2412.18025v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Altermagnets exhibit spontaneously spin-split electronic bands in the zero spin-orbit coupling (SOC) limit arising from the presence of collinear compensated magnetic order. The distinctive magneto-crystalline symmetries of altermagnets ensure that these spin splittings have a characteristic anisotropy in crystal momentum space. These systems have attracted a great deal of interest due to their potential for applications in spintronics. In this paper, we provide a general Landau theory that encompasses all three-dimensional altermagnets where the magnetic order does not enlarge the unit cell. We identify all crystal structures that admit altermagnetism and then reduce these to a relatively small set of distinct possible Landau theories governing such systems. In the zero SOC limit, we determine the possible local multipolar orders that are tied to the spin splitting of the band structure. We make precise the connection between altermagnetism as defined at zero SOC ("ideal" altermagnets) and the effects of weak SOC. In particular, we examine which response functions allowed by symmetry when SOC is present are guaranteed by the spin-orbit free theory, and spell out the distinctive properties of altermagnets in comparison with conventional collinear antiferromagnets. Finally, we show how these ideas can be applied by considering a number of altermagnetic candidate materials.


---
# Emergence of topological defects and spin liquid in a two-orbital spin-fermion model on the honeycomb lattice

## 蜂窝晶格上两轨道自旋费米子模型中拓扑缺陷和自旋液体的出现

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18057

**Authors:** Kaidi Xu, Shan-Shan Wang, Rong Yu, Shuai Dong

arXiv:2412.18057v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Stabilizing exotic quantum phases of matter, e.g. spin liquid, is an attractive topic in condensed matter. Here, by a Monte Carlo study of a two-orbital spin-fermion model on a honeycomb lattice, we show the cooperative effects of the orbital degeneracy of itinerant electrons and the exchange interaction of localized spins can significantly suppress both ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic orders by generating topological defects and give rise to an intermediate spin liquid state via continuous phase transitions. This phase competition can also be achieved by tuning the electron filling. These results shed new light on realizing spin liquids on geometrically non-frustrated lattices.


---
# Automated Materials Discovery Platform Realized: Scanning Probe Microscopy of Combinatorial Libraries

## 实现了自动化材料发现平台: 组合库的扫描探针显微镜

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18067

**Authors:** Yu Liu, Rohit Pant, Ichiro Takeuchi, R. Jackson Spurling, Jon-Paul Maria, Maxim Ziatdinov, Sergei V. Kalinin

arXiv:2412.18067v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Combinatorial libraries are a powerful approach for exploring the evolution of physical properties across binary and ternary cross-sections in multicomponent phase diagrams. Although the synthesis of these libraries has been developed since the 1960s and expedited with advanced laboratory automation, the broader application of combinatorial libraries relies on fast, reliable measurements of concentration-dependent structures and functionalities. Scanning Probe Microscopies (SPM), including piezoresponse force microscopy (PFM), offer significant potential for quantitative, functionally relevant combi-library readouts. Here we demonstrate the implementation of fully automated SPM to explore the evolution of ferroelectric properties in combinatorial libraries, focusing on Sm-doped BiFeO3 and ZnxMg1-xO systems. We also present and compare Gaussian Process-based Bayesian Optimization models for fully automated exploration, emphasizing local reproducibility (effective noise) as an essential factor in optimal experiment workflows. Automated SPM, when coupled with upstream synthesis controls, plays a pivotal role in bridging materials synthesis and characterization.


---
# Competing electronic ground states in the heavy-fermion superconductor CeRh2As2

## 重费米子超导体CeRh2As2中的竞争电子基态

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18068

**Authors:** Joanna B{\l}awat, Grzegorz Chajewski, Daniel Gnida, John Singleton, Oscar Ayala Valenzuela, Dariusz Kaczorowski, Ross D. McDonald

arXiv:2412.18068v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: CeRh2As2 is rare among superconductors, in that magnetic field tunes it between two distinct superconducting phases. Combined with a lack of local inversion symmetry and an upper critical field exceeding the Pauli paramagnetic limit, this excitingly suggests triplet multicomponent superconductivity. Preceding the superconducting onset, f-electron correlations cause long-range order, attributed both to local antiferromagnetism and itinerant (quadrupole) density-waves. Magnetic field provides a significant perturbation of the f-electron and may reveal the nature of the many-body correlations. Thus, we report comprehensive magnetization and magnetotransport studies on microstructured devices in fields of up to 73 T. Applied along the c-axis, field causes a low-temperature valence transition at {\mu}0H ~ 24 T. By contrast, in-plane fields produce a cascade of phase transitions; the field-induced in-plane conductivity anisotropy and lack of accompanying magnetic features, plus the closed-dome nature of the overall phase boundary is consistent with a hierarchy of field-induced density-wave states.


---
# Nonlinear nonreciprocal electronic conductivity driven by magnetic field gradients

## 磁场梯度驱动的非线性不可逆电子电导率

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18155

**Authors:** Taisei Yamanaka, Yoshihiko Ihara, Satoru Hayami

arXiv:2412.18155v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We theoretically propose the emergence of nonlinear nonreciprocal conductivity in centrosymmetric paramagnetic systems when a spatially gradient magnetic field is externally applied. The key essence lies in the appearance of magnetic toroidal dipole moment under the gradient field that breaks both spatial inversion and time-reversal symmetries. By analyzing a minimal tight-binding model on a two-dimensional system, we show that an effective coupling between the magnetic toroidal dipole moment arising from the gradient field and sublattice-dependent antisymmetric spin-orbit interaction plays an important role in inducing the nonlinear nonreciprocal transport. We also discuss the favorable situation to observe the nonlinear nonreciprocal conductivity in real materials by presenting an experimental setup in order to stimulate the findings.


---
# Uniquely identifying quantum Hall phases in charge neutral graphene

## 独特地识别电荷中性石墨烯中的量子霍尔相

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18179

**Authors:** Jincheng An, Ganpathy Murthy

arXiv:2412.18179v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Charge-neutral graphene in the quantum Hall regime is an example of a quantum Hall ferromagnet in a complex spin-valley space. This system exhibits a plethora of phases, with the particular spin-valley order parameters chosen by the system depending sensitively on the short-range anisotropic couplings, the Zeeman field, and the sublattice symmetry breaking field. A subset of order parameters related to lattice symmetry-breaking have been observed by scanning tunneling microscopy. However, other order parameters, particularly those which superpose spin and valley, are more elusive, making it difficult to pin down the nature of the phase. We propose a solution this problem by examining two types of experimentally measurable quantities; transport gaps and collective mode dispersions. We find that the variation of the transport gap with the Zeeman and sublattice symmetry breaking fields, in conjunction with the number of Larmor and gapless modes, provides a unique signature for each theoretically possible phase.


---
# First-Principles Study of the Fermi Surface Topology of CeCu$_{2}$Si$_{2}$

## CeCu $_{2}$ Si $_{2}$ 的费米表面拓扑的第一性原理研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18183

**Authors:** Roxanne M. Tutchton, Jean-Pierre Julien, Qimiao Si, Jian-Xin Zhu

arXiv:2412.18183v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Since the discovery of heavy-fermion superconductivity in CeCu$_{2}$Si$_{2}$, the material has attracted great interest particularly with regard to the nature of the superconducting pairing and its mechanism. Consequently, it is essential to better understand the electronic Fermi surface topology and its role in strong antiferromagnetic fluctuations. The standard density functional theory method is insufficient to model the interplay of strong onsite Coulomb repulsion in localized 4{\it f}-electrons and their hybridization with itinerant ligand-orbital electrons. We have performed electronic ground state calculations on CeCu$_{2}$Si$_{2}$ using the Gutzwiller wavefunction approximation. The Gutzwiller approximation captures the quasiparticle band renormalization from the strong onsite Coulomb repulsion. We have performed an analysis of this effect on the electronic structure and the Fermi surface topology by varying the interaction strength and taking into account the crystal-field splitting. Using the de Haas van Alphen effect, the extremal Fermi surface cross-sectional areas were calculated to quantify the effects of quasiparticle mass renormalization on the Fermi surface. Our results confirm two Fermi surface sheets corresponding to the heavy (488m$_{e}$) and light (4.35m$_{e}$) quasiparticles, which is in close agreement with experimental measurements as well as the renormalized band method.


---
# Altermagnetic Spin-Splitting Magnetoresistance

## 磁自旋分裂磁阻

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18220

**Authors:** Hongyu Chen, Zian Wang, Peixin Qin, Ziang Meng, Xiaorong Zhou, Xiaoning Wang, Li Liu, Guojian Zhao, Zhiyuan Duan, Tianli Zhang, Jinghua Liu, Dingfu Shao, Zhiqi Liu

arXiv:2412.18220v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The recently discovered altermagnets, featured by the exotic correlation of magnetic exchange interaction and alternating crystal environments, have offered exciting cutting-edge opportunities for spintronics. Here, we report the experimental observation of an altermagnetic spin-splitting magnetoresistance effect, which is driven by a spin current associated with the giant nonrelativistic spin splitting of an altermagnet. The spin current polarization and the corresponding magnetic field direction associated with the magnetoresistance extrema are largely determined by the Neel vector of the altermagnet, leading to a remarkable phase shift compared to that driven by a conventional relativistic spin current. Our work opens a door to unearthing luxuriant nonrelativistic quantum states of matter in emergent materials with unconventional spin degeneracy lifting.


---
# Theoretical Study of Nonlinear Absorption of a Strong Electromagnetic Wave in Infinite Semi-parabolic plus Semi-inverse Squared Quantum Wells by Using Quantum Kinetic Equation

## 用量子动力学方程理论研究强电磁波在无限半抛物加半逆平方量子阱中的非线性吸收

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18245

**Authors:** Cao Thi Vi Ba, Nguyen Quang Bau, Anh-Tuan Tran, Tang Thi Dien

arXiv:2412.18245v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: General analytic expressions for the total absorption coefficient of strong electromagnetic waves caused by confined electrons in Infinite semi-parabolic plus Semi-inverse Squared Quantum Wells (ISPSISQW) are obtained by using the quantum kinetic equation for electrons in the case of electron-optical phonon scattering. A second-order multi-photon process is included in the result. The dependence of the total absorption coefficient on the intensity $E_0$, the photon energy $\hbar \Omega$ of an SEMW, and the temperature T for a specific GaAs/GaAsAl ISPPSISQW is achieved by using a numerical method. The computational results demonstrate that the total absorption coefficient's dependence on photon energy can be utilized for optically detecting the electric sub-bands in an ISPPSISQW. Besides, we also give theoretical rules on the dependence of the Full Width at Half Maximum on important external parameters such as temperature and perpendicular magnetic field. Furthermore, the obtained results are consistent with prior theoretical and experimental findings.


---
# Dimensional crossovers in the Gaussian critical fluctuations above $T_c$ of two-layer and three-layer superconductors

## 两层和三层超导体在 $ T_c $ 以上的高斯临界波动中的尺寸交叉

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18251

**Authors:** A. S. Viz, M. M. Botana, J. C. Verde, M. V. Ramallo

arXiv:2412.18251v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: By using a Ginzburg-Landau functional in the Gaussian approximation, we calculate the energy of superconducting fluctuations above the transition, at zero external magnetic field, of a system composed by a small number $N$ of parallel two-dimensional superconducting planes, each of them Josephson coupled to its first neighbour, with special focus in the $N=2$ and $3$ cases. This allows us to obtain expressions for the critical contributions to various observables (fluctuation specific heat and magnetic susceptibility and Aslamazov-Larkin paraconductivity). Our results suggest that these systems may display deviations from pure 2D behaviour and interesting crossover effects, with both similitudes and differences to those known to occur in infinite-layers superconductors. Some challenges for future related research are also outlined.


---
# Temperature crossovers in the specific heat of amorphous magnets

## 非晶磁体比热中的温度交叉

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18305

**Authors:** Hector Ochoa

arXiv:2412.18305v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: It is argued that the specific heat of amorphous solids at low temperatures can be understood to arise from a single branch of collective modes. The idea is illustrated in a model of a correlated spin glass for which magnetic anisotropies are present but they are completely frustrated by disorder. The low-energy spectrum is dominated by soft modes corresponding to propagating Halperin-Saslow spin waves at short wavelengths, evolving into a relaxation and a diffuson mode at the long wavelengths. The latter gives rise to an anomalous temperature behavior of the specific heat at $T\ll T_{*}$: $C\sim T$ in $d=3$ solids, $C\sim T\ln(1/T)$ in $d=2$. The temperature scale $T_{*}$ has a non-trivial dependence on the damping coefficient describing magnetic friction, which can be related to fluctuations of the spin-torque operator via a Green-Kubo formula. Halperin-Saslow modes can also become diffusive due to disclination motion (plastic flow). Extensions of these ideas to other systems (including disordered phases of correlated electrons in cuprate superconductors and of moir\'e superlattices) are discussed


---
# Bose-Einstein condensation of THz photons in an optical microcavity with Landau-quantized electrons

## 具有Landau量子化电子的光学微腔中THz光子的玻色-爱因斯坦凝聚

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18352

**Authors:** Timofey V. Maximov, Norayr A. Asriyan, Igor L. Kurbakov, Yurii E. Lozovik

arXiv:2412.18352v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We present a theoretical model for a coherent terahertz radiation source based on Bose-Einstein condensate of incoherently pumped microcavity photons. Energy relaxation is provided by inelastic photon scattering on a two-dimensional electron gas in magnetic field. The proposed setup evades the standard lasing mechanisms: neither population inversion nor light wave amplification is utilized. We study the kinetics of photon condensation and describe a semiconductor-crystal based device.


---
# Classical Annealing of Sherrington-Kirkpatrick Spin Glass Using Kubo-Suzuki Mean-field Ising Dynamics

## 使用kubo-suzuki平均场Ising动力学对sherrington-kirkpatrick自旋玻璃进行经典退火

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18358

**Authors:** Soumyaditya Das, Soumyajyoti Biswas, Bikas K. Chakrabarti

arXiv:2412.18358v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We propose and demonstrate numerically a fast classical annealing scheme for the Sherrington-Kirkpatrick (SK) spin glass model, employing the Suzuki-Kubo meanfield Ising dynamics (supplemented by a modified Thouless-Anderson-Palmer reaction field). The resultant dynamics, starting from any arbitrary paramagnetic phase (with local $m_i=\pm 1$ for the $i^{th}$ spin, and the global magnetization $m=0$), takes the system quickly to an appropriate state with small local values of magnetization ($m_i$) commensurate with the (frustrated) interactions as the temperature decreases with the annealing which practically remains (in an effective adiabatic way) close to the ground state as the $m_i$'s and the spin glass order parameter $q$ grows to unity. For an $N$-spin SK model (with $N$ up to 8000) the annealed ground state energy per spin $E^0_N - E_0$ is found to scale as $N^{-2/3}$, with $E^0 = -0.7633\pm 0.0003 $ (the universal value is $E^0 =-0.7631667265 \dots$), fluctuation $\sigma_N $ in $E^0_N$ decreases as $\sim N^{-3/4}$ and the annealing time $\tau_N \sim N$.


---
# Lu/Se Substitution Effect on Magnetic Properties of Yb-Based Zigzag Chain Semiconductor YbCuS2

## Lu/Se替代对Yb基锯齿链半导体YbCuS2磁性能的影响

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18373

**Authors:** Fumiya Hori, Hiroyasu Matsudaira, Shunsaku Kitagawa, Kenji Ishida, Souichiro Mizutani, Hirotaka Shirai, Takahiro Onimaru

arXiv:2412.18373v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We have investigated the changes in the magnetic properties on YbCuS2 by Lu or Se substitutions from a microscopic perspective. In general, it is expected that nonmagnetic Lu substitution dilutes the magnetic Yb3+ concentration, and that Se substitution induces the negative pressure in YbCuS2. The 63/65Cu-nuclear quadrupole resonance (NQR) measurements on polycrystalline Yb0.9Lu0.1CuS2 and YbCu(S0.9Se0.1)2 revealed that the Se substitution leads to larger lattice expansion compared to the Lu substitution. The antiferromagnetic transition temperature TN decreased from 0.95 K in the unsubstituted system to 0.75 K in both substituted systems. Furthermore, the T-linear behavior of the 63Cu-NQR spin-lattice relaxation rate 1/T1, suggesting the presence of the gapless quasiparticle excitations, was observed even in the substituted systems, and the value of 1/T1T increases. These results under the chemical substitutions are opposite to those under pressure as previously reported, and are consistent with the expectation. Our systematic study indicates a clear relationship between the magnetic ordered states and the quasiparticle excitations in YbCuS2.


---
# Depth-resolved Nuclear Resonance Scattering under X-ray standing wave -an approach to study interface magnetism

## X射线驻波下的深度分辨核共振散射 -- 一种研究界面磁性的方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18384

**Authors:** Dileep Kumar

arXiv:2412.18384v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The isotope selective grazing-incidence nuclear resonance scattering (GI-NRS) technique is demonstrated to be depth-resolved under x-ray standing wave (XSW) conditions to probe the magnetism of the two interfaces of the Fe layers (Fe-on-Tb and Tb-on-Fe interface) independently in Tb/Fe/Tb trilayer structures. Depth resolution was achieved by placing an ultra-thin layer of 57Fe at both interfaces (Tb/57Fe/Fe/57FeTb). Intentionally, both 57Fe layers were assumed to have different hyperfine fields and orientations. Based on theoretical simulations, it is demonstrated that the antinode regions of XSWs generated through the W/Si multilayer structure allow one to independently measure the Fe-on-Tb and Tb-on-Fe interface at different incident angles. These theoretical simulations of NRS patterns at different incident angles correspond to 57Fe layers independently in the Tb/Fe/Tb trilayer. The present work shows the capability of combining XSW and GI-NRS to study buried magnetic interfaces in thin film structures.


---
# Ultralow-temperature heat transport evidence for residual density of states in the superconducting state of CsV3Sb5

## CsV3Sb5超导状态下剩余状态密度的超低温热传输证据

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18446

**Authors:** C. C. Zhao, L. S. Wang, W. Xia, Q. W. Yin, H. B. Deng, G. W. Liu, J. J. Liu, X. Zhang, J. M. Ni, Y. Y. Huang, C. P. Tu, Z. C. Tao, Z. J. Tu, C. S. Gong, Z. W. Wang, H. C. Lei, Y. F. Guo, X. F. Yang, J. X. Yin, S. Y. Li

arXiv:2412.18446v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The V-based kagome superconductors $A$V$_3$Sb$_5$ ($A$ = K, Rb, and Cs) host charge density wave (CDW) and a topological nontrivial band structure, thereby provide a great platform to study the interplay of superconductivity (SC), CDW, frustration, and topology. Here, we report ultralow-temperature thermal conductivity measurements on CsV$_3$Sb$_5$ and Ta-doped Cs(V$_{0.86}$Ta$_{0.14}$)$_3$Sb$_5$ and scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) measurements on CsV$_3$Sb$_5$. The finite residual linear term of thermal conductivity at zero magnetic field suggests the existence of a residual density of states (DOS) in the superconducting state of CsV$_3$Sb$_5$. This is supported by the observation of non-zero conductance at zero bias in STM spectrum at an electronic temperature of 90 mK. However, in Cs(V$_{0.86}$Ta$_{0.14}$)$_3$Sb$_5$, which does not have CDW order, there is no evidence for residual DOS. These results show the importance of CDW order for the residual DOS, and a nodal $s$-wave gap or residual Fermi arc may be the origin of the residual DOS in such an unusual multiband kagome superconductor, CsV$_3$Sb$_5$.


---
# Linear Enhancement of Spin-Orbit Torques and Absence of Bulk Rashba-Type Spin Splitting in Perpendicularly Magnetized [Pt/Co/W]n Superlattices

## 垂直磁化的 [Pt/Co/W]n超晶格中自旋轨道扭矩的线性增强和体Rashba型自旋分裂的不存在

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18481

**Authors:** Zhihao Yan, Zhengxiao Li, Lujun Zhu, Xin Lin, Lijun Zhu

arXiv:2412.18481v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The development of magnetic heterostructures with strong spin-orbit torques (SOTs), low impedance, strong perpendicular magnetic anisotropy (PMA), and good integration compatibility at the same time is central for high-performance spintronic memory and computing applications. Here, we report the development of the symmetry-broken spin-orbit superlattice [Pt/Co/W]n that can be sputtered-deposited on commercial oxidized silicon substrates and have giant SOTs, strong uniaxial PMA of 9.2 Merg/cm3. The dampinglike and fieldlike SOTs of the [Pt/Co/W]n superlattices exhibit a linear increase with the repeat number n and reach the giant values of 225% and -33% (two orders of magnitude greater than that in clean-limit Pt) at n = 12, respectively. The dampinglike SOT is also of the opposite sign and much greater in magnitude than the fieldlike SOT, regardless of the number of n. These results clarify that the spin current that generates SOTs in the [Pt/Co/W]n superlattices arises predominantly from the spin Hall effect rather than bulk Rashba-type spin splitting, providing a unified understanding of the SOTs in the superlattices. We also demonstrate deterministic switching in thicker-than-50-nm PMA [Pt/Co/W]12 superlattices at a low current density. This work establishes the [Pt/Co/W]n superlattice as a compelling material candidate for ultra-fast, low-power, long-retention nonvolatile spintronic memory and computing technologies.


---
# Topological phases protected by projective PT symmetry in alkaline-earth-like atoms

## 类碱土原子中受射影PT对称性保护的拓扑相

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18494

**Authors:** Xiaofan Zhou, Suotang Jia, Jian-Song Pan

arXiv:2412.18494v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: An important aspect in categorizing topological phases is whether the system is spinless or spinful, given that these classes exhibit distinct symmetry algebras, leading to disparate topological classifications. By utilizing the projective presentation strategy, the topological phases of spinless (or spinful) systems can be emulated using spinful (or spinless) systems augmented with gauge fields. In this study, we propose to implement the topological phases safeguarded by the unique projective space-time (PT) symmetry inherent to spinful models, using synthetic spinless alkaline-earth-like atoms. Employing the separation of orbital and nuclear-spin degrees of freedom, the model is configured as a rectangular tube penetrated by a uniform magnetic flux through each plaquette, which simulates a spinless ladder endowed with projective PT symmetry satisfying the algebraic properties of a spinful model. For interacting topological phases with inter-orbital spin-exchange interactions, which also adhere to PT symmetry, the four-fold degeneracy of edge modes is split into two pairs of edge modes with two-fold degeneracy. We map the complete phase diagram in the end and discover that these interacting topological phases ultimately evolve into distinct charge-density-wave phases via spontaneous symmetry breaking.


---
# The $S=\frac{1}{2}$ XY and XYZ models on the two or higher dimensional hypercubic lattice do not possess nontrivial local conserved quantities

## 二维或更高维超立方晶格上的 $ S = \ frac{1}{2}$ XY和XYZ模型不具有非平凡的局部守恒量

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18504

**Authors:** Naoto Shiraishi, Hal Tasaki

arXiv:2412.18504v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We study the $S=\frac{1}{2}$ quantum spin system on the $d$-dimensional hypercubic lattice with $d\ge2$ with uniform nearest-neighbor interaction of the XY or XYZ type and arbitrary uniform magnetic field. By extending the method recently developed for quantum spin chains, we prove that the model possesses no local conserved quantities except for the trivial ones, such as the Hamiltonian. This result strongly suggests that the model is non-integrable. We note that our result applies to the XX model without a magnetic field, which is one of the easiest solvable models in one dimension.


---
# Spectroscopic footprints of quantum friction in nonreciprocal and chiral media

## 非互易性和手性介质中量子摩擦的光谱足迹

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18044

**Authors:** O. J. Franca, Fabian Spallek, Steffen Giesen, Robert Berger, Kilian Singer, Stefan Aull, Stefan Yoshi Buhmann

arXiv:2412.18044v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We investigate how the quantum friction experienced by a polarizable atom moving with constant velocity parallel to a planar interface is modified when the latter consists of chiral or nonreciprocal media, with special focus on topological insulators. We use macroscopic quantum electrodynamics to obtain the velocity-dependent Casimir-Polder frequency shift and decay rate. These results are a generalization to matter with time-reversal symmetry breaking. We illustrate our findings by examining the nonretarded and retarded limits for five examples: a perfectly conducting mirror, a perfectly reflecting nonreciprocal mirror, a three-dimensional topological insulator, a perfectly reflecting chiral mirror and an isotropic chiral medium. We find different asymptotic power laws for all these materials. Interestingly, we find two bridges between chirality and nonreciprocity through the frequency shift that arise as a consequence of the magnetoelectric coupling. Namely, the position-dependent Casimir-Polder frequency shift for the nonreciprocal case depend on a geometric magnetic field associated with photoionization of chiral molecules, the Casimir-Polder depending on the velocities for the chiral case have the optical rotatory strength as the atomic response while those for the nonreciprocal case depend on an analog of the optical rotatory strength.


---
# Phase Diagram and Spectroscopic Signatures of Supersolids in Quantum Ising Magnet K$_2$Co(SeO$_3$)$_2$

## 量子伊辛磁体K $_2 $ Co(SeO $_3 $)$ _2 $ 中超固体的相图和光谱特征

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.15869

**Authors:** Tong Chen, Alireza Ghasemi, Junyi Zhang, Liyu Shi, Zhenisbek Tagay, Youzhe Chen, Lei Chen, Eun-Sang Choi, Marcelo Jaime, Minseong Lee, Yiqing Hao, Huibo Cao, Barry Winn, Andrey A. Podlesnyak, Daniel M. Pajerowski, Ruidan Zhong, Xianghan Xu, N. P. Armitage, Robert Cava, Collin Broholm

arXiv:2402.15869v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: A supersolid is a quantum-entangled state of matter that exhibits the dual characteristics of superfluidity and solidity. \red{While theoretical studies have predicted that hard-core bosons with repulsive interactions on a triangular lattice can host a supersolid phase, experimental validation has remained elusive. Leveraging an exact mapping between bosons and spins, we investigate the supersolid phase in a spin-$\frac{1}{2}$ triangular-lattice antiferromagnet K$_2$Co(SeO$_3$)$_2$.} Here, we present the magnetic phase diagram and neutron scattering results for K$_2$Co(SeO$_3$)$_2$, which features nearest-neighbor Ising-like interactions with $J_z = 2.96(2)$ meV and $J_{\perp} = 0.21(3)$ meV. In zero field, neutron spectroscopy reveals the gradual development of a quasi-two-dimensional $\sqrt{3}\times\sqrt{3}$ magnetic order with Z$_3$ translational symmetry breaking (solidity) below 15 K. \red{At temperatures below 0.3 K, the fully developed supersolid phase is evidenced by the coexistence of a gapless Goldstone mode arising from broken U$(1)$ spin rotational symmetry (superfluidity), and a gapped pseudo-Goldstone mode associated with lifted accidental XY degeneracy (solidity).} In $\bf c$-axis-oriented magnetic fields 1.1 T $<$ $B$ $<$ 21 T, a prominent 1/3 magnetization plateau phase emerges, accompanied by a \red{plausible} high-field supersolid phase (17 T $<$ $B$ $<$ 21 T). Our results establish K$_2$Co(SeO$_3$)$_2$as an exceptional realization of a spin-$\frac{1}{2}$ triangular-lattice quantum Ising magnet, document its magnetic phase diagram featuring two supersolid phases, and uncover spectroscopic \red{signatures} of zero-field supersolidity in a triangular lattice antiferromagnet.


---
# Fluctuating field series: towards calculations of correlated systems with high accuracy

## 波动场系列: 朝着高精度相关系统的计算迈进

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.12590

**Authors:** Ya. S. Lyakhova, S. D. Semenov, A. I. Lichtenstein, A. N. Rubtsov

arXiv:2406.12590v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We introduce regular series expansion for weakly- and moderately-correlated fermionic systems, based on Fluctuating Local Field approach. The method relies on the explicit account of leading fluctuating mode(s) and is therefore suitable for medium-sized lattices. It can be also used as a solver for the cluster approximations for infinite-size lattices. We introduce classical fluctuating field coupled to fermionic collective mode(s). This way, fluctuations in selected modes are treated in a non-perturbative way. Other degrees of freedom are accounted for the diagram expansion performed at each value of the fluctuating field. The method is benchmarked for the $U/t=1$ and $U/t=2$ Hubbard lattices at half-filling. Results for susceptibility in the antiferromagnetic channel along with the single particle density of states are compared with the numerically exact quantum Monte Carlo data. Calculations up to the third order of the series expansion are performed and show a uniform convergence to the reference result for the susceptibility. This convergence is observed well below the DMFT Ne\'el temperature and makes our practically simple method applicable in a much wider temperature range than DMFT-based diagrammatic schemes.


---
# Ferromagnetic CrBr$_3$-Induced Graphene Spintronics

## 铁磁CrB r $_3 $ 诱导石墨烯自旋电子学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.07602

**Authors:** Sushant Kumar Behera, Madhavi Ahalawat, Praveen C Ramamurthy

arXiv:2407.07602v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Our proposed spin valve prototype showcases a sophisticated design featuring a two-dimensional graphene bilayer positioned between layers of ${CrBr}_3$ ferromagnetic insulators. In this model, proximity coupling plays a pivotal role, influencing the magnetization orientations of the graphene layers and significantly impacting the \textit{in-plane} conductivity of the ${CrBr}_3$ layers. In this present work, we position the graphene bilayer between two layers of the ferromagnetic insulator ${CrBr}_3$ to establish this configuration. Using density functional theory, we conduct detailed computations to analyze the electronic structure of this sandwiched system. Our findings reveal a notable finite gap at specific \textit{k}-points, particularly evident in the antiparallel configuration of the magnetizations. This finding represents a significant advancement in spintronics, underscoring the potential of our spin valve prototype to drive innovation in electronic device technologies.


---
# Non-invertible symmetries in finite-group gauge theory

## 有限群规范理论中的不可逆对称性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.07964

**Authors:** Clay Cordova, Davi B. Costa, Po-Shen Hsin

arXiv:2407.07964v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We investigate the invertible and non-invertible symmetries of topological finite-group gauge theories in general spacetime dimensions, where the gauge group can be abelian or non-abelian. We focus in particular on the 0-form symmetry. The gapped domain walls that generate these symmetries are specified by boundary conditions for the gauge fields on either side of the wall. We investigate the fusion rules of these symmetries and their action on other topological defects including the Wilson lines, magnetic fluxes, and gapped boundaries. We illustrate these constructions with various novel examples, including non-invertible electric-magnetic duality symmetry in 3+1d $\mathbb{Z}_2$ gauge theory, and non-invertible analogs of electric-magnetic duality symmetry in non-abelian finite-group gauge theories. In particular, we discover topological domain walls that obey Fibonacci fusion rules in 2+1d gauge theory with dihedral gauge group of order 8. We also generalize the Cheshire string defect to analogous defects of general codimensions and gauge groups and show that they form a closed fusion algebra.


---
# Spin Seebeck Effect in Graphene

## 石墨烯中的自旋塞贝克效应

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.18456

**Authors:** Xin Hu, Yuya Ominato, Mamoru Matsuo

arXiv:2409.18456v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We develop a microscopic theory of the spin Seebeck effect (SSE) at the interface of a bilayer system of a ferromagnetic insulator and graphene. We compare the tunneling spin current at the interface because of the SSE and the spin pumping (SP), where the SSE and SP are induced by the temperature gradient and the microwave irradiation, respectively. We demonstrate that the thermally driven SSE exhibits a quantum oscillation pattern similar to that predicted in coherently driven SP. Additionally, we show a peak shift of the quantum oscillation owing to the contribution of thermally excited magnons with higher frequencies, which becomes particularly pronounced at higher temperatures.


---
# Properties of an organic model $S=1$ Haldane chain system

## 有机模型 $ S = 1 $ Haldane链系统的性质

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.16994

**Authors:** Ivan Jakovac, Ton\v{c}i Cvitani\'c, Denis Ar\v{c}on, Mirta Herak, Dominik Cin\v{c}i\'c, Nea Baus Topi\'c, Yuko Hosokoshi, Toshio Ono, Ken Iwashita, Nobuyuki Hayashi, Naoki Amaya, Akira Matsuo, Koichi Kindo, Ivor Lon\v{c}ari\'c, Mladen Horvati\'c, Masashi Takigawa, Mihael S. Grbi\'c

arXiv:2410.16994v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We present the properties of a new organic $S=1$ antiferromagnetic chain system $m$-NO$_2$PhBNO (abbreviated BoNO). In this biradical system two unpaired electrons from aminoxyl groups are strongly ferromagnetically coupled ($|J_\text{FM}| /k_B \gtrsim 500$ K) which leads to the formation of an effective $S=1$ state for each molecule. The chains of BoNO biradicals propagate along the crystallographic $a$ axis. Temperature dependence of the $g$ factor and electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) linewidth are consistent with a low-dimensional system with antiferromagnetic interactions. The EPR data further suggest that BoNO is the first known Haldane system with an almost isotropic $g$ factor ($2.0023 \pm 2 \unicode{x2030}$). The magnetization measurements in magnetic fields up to $40$ T and low-field susceptibility, together with $^1$H nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectra, reveal a dominant intrachain antiferromagnetic exchange coupling of $J_\text{1D}/k_B = (11.3\pm0.1)$ K, and attainable critical magnetic fields of $\mu_0 H_\text{c1} \approx 2$ T and $\mu_0 H_\text{c2} \approx 33$ T. These measurements therefore suggest that BoNO is a unique Haldane system with extremely small magnetic anisotropy. Present results are crucial for a future in-depth NMR study of the low-temperature Tomonaga-Luttinger liquid (TLL) and magnetic field-induced phases, which can be performed in the entire phase space.


---
# Inversion of Dislocation-Impurity Interactions in $\alpha$-Fe under Magnetic State Changes

## 磁性状态变化下 $ \ alpha $-Fe中位错-杂质相互作用的反演

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.14920

**Authors:** Franco Moitzi, Lorenz Romaner, Andrei V. Ruban, Swarnava Ghosh, Markus Eisenbach, Oleg E. Peil

arXiv:2412.14920v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Impurities can strongly influence dislocation behavior and thus impact plasticity. Quantifying dislocation-impurity interactions in $\alpha$-Fe from ab initio across a wide temperature range is challenging due to paramagnetism at elevated temperatures. In this work, we investigate the energy profiles and segregation behavior of various 3d elements - V, Cr, Mn, Cu, Ni, and Co - in and around $1/2\langle111\rangle$ screw dislocations in $\alpha$-Fe in ferromagnetic and paramagnetic state with the latter being modeled through both the disordered local moment model and a spin-wave approach using ab initio methods. Our findings reveal that (1) magnetic effects are large compared to elastic size effects, and (2) dislocation-impurity interactions are dependent on the magnetic state of the matrix and thermal lattice expansion. In particular, Cu changes from core-attractive in the ferromagnetic state to repulsive in the paramagnetic state.


---
# Altermagnetism in modified Lieb lattice Hubbard model

## 改进的Lieb晶格Hubbard模型中的磁

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16421

**Authors:** Nitin Kaushal, Marcel Franz

arXiv:2412.16421v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We study the emergence of altermagnetism from repulsive interactions for electrons on the Lieb lattice as a model of quasi-2D oxychalcogenides with the so-called "anti-CuO$_{2}$" lattice structure. A comprehensive study of the Lieb lattice Hubbard model, using unrestricted Hartree-Fock and exact diagonalization techniques, establishes the presence of spin-${1\over 2}$ altermagnetic Mott insulating ground state for average electron densities of 2 and 4 per unit cell. Both phases show the characteristic spin splitting in the electron bands as well as in the magnon bands, as indicated by solutions of an effective spin-${1\over 2}$ Heisenberg model that we construct. We also provide evidence for altermagnetic metal formation in the electron- and hole-doped Mott state, giving rise to Fermi surfaces with $d_{x^{2}-y^{2}}$-wave spin splitting and quasi-one-dimensional characteristics.


---
# High-efficiency, cryogenic-compatible grating couplers on an AlN-on-sapphire platform through bottom-side coupling

## 通过底侧耦合在蓝宝石上的AlN平台上实现高效，低温兼容的光栅耦合器

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.17941

**Authors:** Yiyu Zhou, Mohan Shen, Chunzhen Li, Jiacheng Xie, Hong X. Tang

arXiv:2412.17941v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Sapphire is a commonly used substrate for wide-bandgap III-nitride photonic materials. However, its relatively high refractive index results in low transmission efficiency in grating couplers. Here, we propose and demonstrate that the transmission efficiency can be significantly enhanced by bottom-side coupling. A metal reflector is deposited on the top side of the chip, and the fiber array is glued to the bottom side of the substrate. We experimentally achieve a transmission efficiency as high as 42% per coupler on an aluminum nitride (AlN) on sapphire platform at the telecom wavelength. In addition, the grating couplers show a robust performance at a cryogenic temperature as low as 3~K for both transverse-electric (TE) and transverse-magnetic (TM) modes. Our results can be useful to a wide range of sapphire-based applications that require low coupling loss and cryogenic operation.


---
# A physics-engineering-economic model coupling approach for estimating the socio-economic impacts of space weather scenarios

## 用于估算空间天气情景的社会经济影响的物理-工程-经济模型耦合方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18032

**Authors:** Edward J. Oughton, Dennies K. Bor, Michael Wiltberger, Robert Weigel, C. Trevor Gaunt, Ridvan Dogan, Liling Huang

arXiv:2412.18032v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: There is growing concern about our vulnerability to space weather hazards and the disruption critical infrastructure failures could cause to society and the economy. However, the socio-economic impacts of space weather hazards, such as from geomagnetic storms, remain under-researched. This study introduces a novel framework to estimate the economic impacts of electricity transmission infrastructure failure due to space weather. By integrating existing geophysical and geomagnetically induced current (GIC) estimation models with a newly developed geospatial model of the Continental United States power grid, GIC vulnerabilities are assessed for a range of space weather scenarios. The approach evaluates multiple power network architectures, incorporating input-output economic modeling to translate business and population disruptions into macroeconomic impacts from GIC-related thermal heating failures. The results indicate a daily GDP loss from 6 billion USD to over 10 billion USD. Even under conservative GIC thresholds (75 A/ph) aligned with thermal withstand limits from the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC), significant economic disruptions are evident. This study is limited by its restriction to thermal heating analysis, though GICs can also affect the grid through other pathways, such as voltage instability and harmonic distortions. Addressing these other failure mechanisms need to be the focus of future research.


---
# Performance Evaluation of a Diamond Quantum Magnetometer for Biomagnetic Sensing: A Phantom Study

## 用于生物磁传感的金刚石量子磁力仪的性能评估: 体模研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18101

**Authors:** Naota Sekiguchi, Yuta Kainuma, Motofumi Fushimi, Chikara Shinei, Masashi Miyakawa, Takashi Taniguchi, Tokuyuki Teraji, Hiroshi Abe, Shinobu Onoda, Takeshi Ohshima, Mutsuko Hatano, Masaki Sekino, Takayuki Iwasaki

arXiv:2412.18101v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We employ a dry-type phantom to evaluate the performance of a diamond quantum magnetometer with a high sensitivity of about $6~\mathrm{pT/\sqrt{Hz}}$ from the viewpoint of practical measurement in biomagnetic sensing. The dry phantom is supposed to represent an equivalent current dipole (ECD) generated by brain activity, emulating an encephalomagnetic field. The spatial resolution of the magnetometer is evaluated to be sufficiently higher than the length of the variation in the encephalomagnetic field distribution. The minimum detectable ECD moment is evaluated to be 0.2 nA m by averaging about 8000 measurements for a standoff distance of 2.4 mm from the ECD. We also discuss the feasibility of detecting an ECD in the measurement of an encephalomagnetic field in humans. We conclude that it is feasible to detect an encephalomagnetic field from a shallow cortex area such as the primary somatosensory cortex.


---
# Altermagnetic Spin-Splitting Magnetoresistance

## 磁自旋分裂磁阻

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18220

**Authors:** Hongyu Chen, Zian Wang, Peixin Qin, Ziang Meng, Xiaorong Zhou, Xiaoning Wang, Li Liu, Guojian Zhao, Zhiyuan Duan, Tianli Zhang, Jinghua Liu, Dingfu Shao, Zhiqi Liu

arXiv:2412.18220v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: The recently discovered altermagnets, featured by the exotic correlation of magnetic exchange interaction and alternating crystal environments, have offered exciting cutting-edge opportunities for spintronics. Here, we report the experimental observation of an altermagnetic spin-splitting magnetoresistance effect, which is driven by a spin current associated with the giant nonrelativistic spin splitting of an altermagnet. The spin current polarization and the corresponding magnetic field direction associated with the magnetoresistance extrema are largely determined by the Neel vector of the altermagnet, leading to a remarkable phase shift compared to that driven by a conventional relativistic spin current. Our work opens a door to unearthing luxuriant nonrelativistic quantum states of matter in emergent materials with unconventional spin degeneracy lifting.


---
# High-order alloharmonics produced by nonperiodic drivers

## 非周期驱动器产生的高阶谐波

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.01018

**Authors:** M. S. Pirozhkova, K. Ogura, A. Sagisaka, T. Zh. Esirkepov, A. Ya. Faenov, T. A. Pikuz, H. Kotaki, Y. Hayashi, Y. Fukuda, J. K. Koga, S. V. Bulanov, H. Daido, N. Hasegawa, M. Ishino, M. Nishikino, M. Koike, T. Kawachi, H. Kiriyama, M. Kando, D. Neely, A. S. Pirozhkov

arXiv:2306.01018v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: High-order harmonics are ubiquitous in nature and present in electromagnetic, acoustic, and gravitational waves. They are generated by periodic nonlinear processes or periodic high-frequency pulses. However, this periodicity is often inexact, such as that in chirped (frequency-swept) optical waveforms or interactions with nonstationary matter - for instance, reflection from accelerating mirrors. Spectra observed in such cases often contain complicated sets of harmonic-like fringes, uninterpretable or even misinterpretable via standard Fourier analysis. Here, we propose the concept of alloharmonics, i.e. spectral interference of harmonics with different orders, fully explaining the formation of these fringes (from Greek $\ddot{{\alpha}}{\lambda}{\lambda}{\omicron}{\varsigma}$: \'allos, "other"). Like atomic spectra, the complex alloharmonic spectra depend on several integer numbers and bear a unique imprint of the emission process, such as the driver period and its time derivatives, which the alloharmonic theory can decipher. We demonstrate laser-driven alloharmonics experimentally in the extreme ultraviolet spectral region and extract nonperiodicity parameters. We analyze previously published simulations of gravitational waves emitted by binary black hole mergers and demonstrate alloharmonics there. Further, we predict the presence of alloharmonics in the radio spectra of pulsars and in optical frequency combs, and propose their use for measurement of extremely small accelerations necessary for testing gravity theories. The alloharmonics phenomenon generalizes classical harmonics and is critical in attosecond physics, frequency comb generation, pulsar studies, and future gravitational wave spectroscopy.


---
# Decomposition for transverse spins in structured vector fields

## 结构化向量场中横向自旋的分解

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.06664

**Authors:** Zhi-Kang Xiong, Zhen-Lai Wang, Meng Wen, Y. Liu, Bin Zhou

arXiv:2310.06664v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Classical vector waves can possess dedicated spin angular momenta (SAM), which are \emph{perpendicular} to the propagation direction, as revealed by recent recognition of transverse SAM in electromagnetic (EM) fields. In this paper, we adopt the Hertz potential method to define structured vector fields and derive analytically the SAM of the wave fields in closed form. Our calculations not only confirm that transverse SAM may originate from the first-order spatial inhomogeneity of the momentum of EM waves, but also point out that for non-planar vector waves with near fields, an extraordinary spin appears as a distinct part of transverse spin. We further demonstrate that the proposed transverse spins appear universally in various structured propagating waves. This work renews the fundamental understanding of the decomposition of SAM for classical vector waves.


---
# Interpreting Purcell Enhancement of Non-Hermitian Metasurfaces with Spectral Parameters

## 用光谱参数解释非埃尔米特超表面的Purcell增强

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.05427

**Authors:** Joshua T. Y. Tse, Shunsuke Murai, Katsuhisa Tanaka

arXiv:2411.05427v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: The Purcell effect describes the enhancement of the spontaneous emission rate of an emitter near a resonant structure. However, evaluating the Purcell factor quantitatively and empirically is difficult due to the difficulties in measuring the electromagnetic nearfield of an optical resonance for calculation of the exact effective modal volume, especially with non-Hermitian resonators. Therefore, we propose a new analytical approach to circumvent the need to measure the nearfield and predict the Purcell enhancement with spectral parameters, which can be directly measured in farfield or fitted from such spectral measurements. Our proposed model predicts the averaged Purcell enhancement by metasurfaces on a photoluminescent medium, and is verified with experimental measurements and numerical simulations of nanoparticle arrays coupled to a fluorescent thin film. The model directly analyzes the photoluminescence enhancement and extraction efficiency of metasurface, and can be generalized to work with arbitrarily-shaped photoluminescent medium that is coupled to a resonator. This discovery provides a practical and accessible way to understand the underlying mechanisms of photoluminescence enhancement and will facilitate optimization of metasurfaces for efficient extraction of the enhanced luminescence.


---
# Semblance study of force-field and convection-diffusion solutions with observations of solar magnetic phenomena

## 通过观察太阳磁现象对力场和对流扩散解的相似性研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.13241

**Authors:** Miguel Enr\'iquez-Vargas, Jorge Uriel P\'erez-Romero

arXiv:2401.13241v3 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: We propose a quantitative model using the semblance method to evaluate differences in transport equation solutions and Local Interstellar Spectra (LIS) for Cosmic Ray (CR) modulation. The semblance method quantitatively compares transport solutions convection-diffusion and force field-and LIS, providing insights into CR behavior. By integrating these solutions into the atmospheric yield function (Caballero-Lopez & Moraal 2012), the model identifies a correlation between the modulation factor and sunspots, and an anti-correlation with the mean magnetic field. The force field solution shows stronger semblance values, aligning better with neutron detector data. Among LIS, models by Lagner, Potgieter & Webber (2003), and Ghelfi et al. (2017) are most consistent, while the Garcia-Munoz et al. (1975) LIS reveals notable variations. This study underscores the semblance method as a critical tool for comparing CR modulation models, advancing predictive models of cosmic ray behavior influenced by solar and interstellar conditions.


---
# Ferromagnetic CrBr$_3$-Induced Graphene Spintronics

## 铁磁CrB r $_3 $ 诱导石墨烯自旋电子学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.07602

**Authors:** Sushant Kumar Behera, Madhavi Ahalawat, Praveen C Ramamurthy

arXiv:2407.07602v3 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Our proposed spin valve prototype showcases a sophisticated design featuring a two-dimensional graphene bilayer positioned between layers of ${CrBr}_3$ ferromagnetic insulators. In this model, proximity coupling plays a pivotal role, influencing the magnetization orientations of the graphene layers and significantly impacting the \textit{in-plane} conductivity of the ${CrBr}_3$ layers. In this present work, we position the graphene bilayer between two layers of the ferromagnetic insulator ${CrBr}_3$ to establish this configuration. Using density functional theory, we conduct detailed computations to analyze the electronic structure of this sandwiched system. Our findings reveal a notable finite gap at specific \textit{k}-points, particularly evident in the antiparallel configuration of the magnetizations. This finding represents a significant advancement in spintronics, underscoring the potential of our spin valve prototype to drive innovation in electronic device technologies.


---
# Flow hydraulics consideration information of the grey water reuse: towards sustainable water management

## 灰水回用的流量水力学考虑信息: 迈向可持续的水管理

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-4817440/latest

In this article, the effect of water quality on the hydraulic parameters of furrow irrigation was tested with 60 experiments with the quality of fresh water (FW), magnetic (MW) and non-magnetic effluent (WW). It was found that magnetism has no significant effect on the quality parameters of wastewater. Also, the effect of water quality on infiltration parameters such as final infiltration, average infiltration in certain time periods, especially in the advance stage, was not significant. But the final penetration reduction during the test period in MW and WW was more severe than FW and magnetism had little effect. These observations were similar to the results in the average penetration in certain time intervals except for the advance stage. Water quality did not have a significant effect on the time of discharge and progress and regression and the time of reaching the final infiltration. The results showed that the hydraulics of furrow irrigation was more affected by the soil and tillage than the quality of irrigation water and the magnetic field did not change the hydraulic effects of WW compared to MW.


---
# Effects of magnetized municipal effluent on some chemical properties of soil in furrow irrigation

## 磁化市政污水对沟灌土壤某些化学性质的影响

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-4819148/latest

Due to the water crisis, wastewater reuse is an effective method in order to supply crop water requirements. In order to study the impact of treated and magnetic wastewater on the soil properties, this research was conducted in randomized complete block design with three irrigation treatments; including "wastewater", "magnetic wastewater" and "normal water" in four replications. Soil samples were taken from two surface and subsurface soil layers and at the upper and the downstream of each furrow. The results indicated that based on the amount of soil salinity, there was no significant difference between treatments statistically; however, considerable changes in the increasing of salinity were observed on subsurface layers in the magnetized wastewater treatment. This is probably due to the increasing salt portability of magnetized wastewater and accumulation of salts in the lower soil layer. The soil pH was also affected by wastewater and was decreased. However, magnetizing the wastewater had no considerable effect on soil pH.


---
# Diagnostic performance of serum mac-2-binding protein glycosylation isomer as a fibrosis biomarker in non-obese and obese patients with MASLD

## 血清mac-2结合蛋白糖基化异构体作为非肥胖和肥胖MASLD患者纤维化生物标志物的诊断性能

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5473146/latest

Aim Serum mac-2-binding protein glycosylation isomer (M2BPGi) is a new biomarker for liver fibrosis. However, its performance in metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD), particularly in obese patients, remains to be explored.Methods This study evaluated the role of M2BPGi in predicting liver fibrosis in 205 patients with MASLD using magnetic resonance elastography (MRE) as a reference. The performance of M2BPGi was compared to vibration-controlled transient elastography (VCTE), FIB-4, APRI, and NFS. The PNPLA3, TM6SF2, and HSD17B13 polymorphisms were assessed by allelic discrimination assays.Results The area under the ROC curves for VCTE, M2BPGi FIB-4, APRI, and NFS in differentiating significant fibrosis were 0.95 (95% CI; 0.91&amp;ndash;0.98), 0.85 (0.79&amp;ndash;0.92), 0.81 (0.74&amp;ndash;0.89), 0.79 (0.71&amp;ndash;0.87) and 0.80 (0.72&amp;ndash;0.87) (all P&amp;thinsp;&amp;lt;&amp;thinsp;0.001), respectively. The optimal cut-off values of M2BPGi in predicting significant fibrosis, advanced fibrosis, and cirrhosis were 0.82, 0.95, and 1.23 cut-off index (COI), yielding satisfactory sensitivity, specificity, and diagnostic accuracy. The performance of M2BPGi was consistent among subgroups according to BMI, while the AUROCs of FIB-4, APRI, and NFS were remarkably declined in patients with BMI&amp;thinsp;&amp;ge;&amp;thinsp;30 kg/m2. Patients with the PNPLA3 GG genotype had significantly higher M2BPGi than those with the CC/CG genotypes. In multivariate analysis, the independent factors associated with significant liver fibrosis were VCTE, M2BPGi, and PNPLA3 rs738409.Conclusion Our data demonstrated that serum M2BPGi accurately assessed liver fibrosis across different BMI, indicating that this biomarker could apply to non-obese and obese patients with MASLD in clinical settings.


---
# High Resolution Reverse-Offset Printed Wearable Textile Capacitive Sensor for Continuous Monitoring of Atopic Dermatitis

## 高分辨率反向胶印印刷可穿戴纺织品电容传感器，用于特应性皮炎的连续监测

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5476578/latest

Reverse-offset printing (ROP) is an emerging approach for achieving microscale patterns, particularly in the development of electronic devices on flexible substrates, such as interdigital capacitive (IDC) sensors. Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a prevalent inflammatory skin condition affecting millions globally, with prevalence rates ranging from 15&amp;ndash;30% in children and 2&amp;ndash;10% in adults. It leads to significant skin dryness and irritation, making effective diagnosis and treatment crucial. Accurate monitoring can help optimize clinical management and improve patient outcomes. IDC sensors fabricated on textiles offer a promising solution for comfortable user-friendly continuous monitoring and quantification of AD. A key requirement for this application is controlling the depth of the electromagnetic field produced by the sensor, defined by the IDC electrode gaps, to be the most sensitive to the stratum corneum (SC) layer of the skin. IDC gaps of 30 to 50 &amp;micro;m would result in a field depth within the SC but these small gaps are difficult to achieve using standard screen-printing techniques. Using COMSOL Multiphysics 6.1 and reverse-offset printing (ROP) techniques, this paper examines how variations in feature sizes and encapsulation layer thicknesses impact the sensor&amp;rsquo;s performance. The simulations modelled the electric field distribution and capacitance changes in response to different skin hydration levels, represented by varying the relative permittivity of the SC layer, and the influence of the encapsulation layer. Simulation results have been validated by IDC sensors fabricated with a range of feature sizes and encapsulation layer thicknesses. The results indicated that encapsulation layers with thickness below 10 &amp;micro;m for a sensor with finger width and finger gap of 50 &amp;micro;m improves the reliability and consistency of the sensor&amp;rsquo;s performance and minimises the reduction in monitoring sensitivity. This study highlights the critical balance between encapsulation thickness and sensor performance, offering valuable insights for the design of reliable and effective IDC sensors for skin hydration monitoring. The findings pave the way for further advancements in wearable skin sensors, enhancing their application in personalized healthcare and dermatological diagnostics.

