# Author Correction: Physics-informed deep generative learning for quantitative assessment of the retina

## 作者更正: 用于视网膜定量评估的物理信息深度生成学习

Link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-025-56964-x

**Authors:** Simon Walker-Samuel

<p>Nature Communications, Published online: 13 February 2025; <a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-025-56964-x">doi:10.1038/s41467-025-56964-x</a></p>Author Correction: Physics-informed deep generative learning for quantitative assessment of the retina


---
# Author Correction: Benchmarking machine learning methods for synthetic lethality prediction in cancer

## 作者更正: 用于癌症综合致死率预测的基准机器学习方法

Link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-025-56368-x

**Authors:** Jie Zheng

<p>Nature Communications, Published online: 13 February 2025; <a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-025-56368-x">doi:10.1038/s41467-025-56368-x</a></p>Author Correction: Benchmarking machine learning methods for synthetic lethality prediction in cancer


---
# Reactive rate coefficients and machine learning predictions for O( 3 P) + C 2 (X 1 Σ g  + ) collisions on an accurate PIP-NN potential energy surface

## 精确pip-nn势能面上O (3 p) C 2 (x1 Σ g) 碰撞的反应速率系数和机器学习预测

Link: https://pubs.aip.org/aip/jcp/article/162/6/064307/3335856/Reactive-rate-coefficients-and-machine-learning

<span class="paragraphSection">A full-dimensional potential energy surface (PES) for the <sup>3</sup><span style="font-style: italic;">A</span>″ state of the [CCO] system has been constructed using neural networks (NNs) with permutationally invariant polynomials. This global analytical PES was accurately fitted from 9293 <span style="font-style: italic;">ab initio</span> energies at the MRCI + Q/aug-cc-pVTZ level of theory. Based on the newly developed surfaces, the microscopic chemical reaction mechanisms of the O(<sup>3</sup>P) + C<sub>2</sub>(X<sup>1</sup>Σg<sup>+</sup>) → CO(X<sup>1</sup>Σ<sup>+</sup>) + C(<sup>3</sup>P) reactive collision were investigated using the quasi-classical trajectory (QCT) method. The reaction cross sections and rate coefficients obtained from QCT calculations are in good agreement with available theoretical and experimental data reported in the literature. Rate coefficient calculations indicate that for O + C<sub>2</sub> collisions, the results for the reactive channel are significantly higher than those for the inelastic channel across a wide temperature range of 1000–20 000 K. Finally, to reduce computational demands, we also established an NN-based model to predict cross section by combining QCT with NNs. The developed model accurately reproduces the original QCT results.</span>


---
# Complex-valued physics-informed machine learning for efficient solving of quintic nonlinear Schrödinger equations

## 用于有效求解五阶非线性schr ö dinger方程的复值物理通知机器学习

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevResearch.7.013164

**Authors:** Lei Zhang, Mengge Du, Xiaodong Bai, Yuntian Chen, and Dongxiao Zhang

Author(s): Lei Zhang, Mengge Du, Xiaodong Bai, Yuntian Chen, and Dongxiao Zhang<br /><p>The Gross-Pitaevskii equation (GPE), a specialized form of the nonlinear Schrödinger equation (NLSE), plays a pivotal role in quantum mechanics, optics, and condensed matter physics, modeling phenomena such as superfluidity, quantum turbulence, and solitons, while serving as a cornerstone for advanc…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. Research 7, 013164] Published Thu Feb 13, 2025


---
# Solvation free energies of anions: from new reference data to predictive models

## 阴离子的溶剂化自由能: 从新的参考数据到预测模型

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-8bj2t?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Kai, Leonhard

Predicting the physicochemical properties of ionizable solutes, including solubility and lipophilicity, is of broad significance. Such predictions rely on the accurate determination of solvation free energies for ions. However, the limited availability of high-quality reference data poses a challenge in developing accurate, inexpensive computational prediction methods. In this study, we address both issues of data quality and availability. We present three databases and models related to ionic phenomena: 1 (1) 8,241 pK a datapoints across 8 solvents, (2) 5,536 gas-phase acidities from DLPNO- CCSD(T) QM calculations, and (3) 6,090 solvation free energies of anions across 8 solvents obtained from a thermodynamic cycle. We also report 6,088 solvation free energies of neutral conjugate solutes computed using the COSMO-RS method. The pKa data were obtained from the iBonD database, cleaned, and combined with a separate compilation of trustworthy reference pKa data. Gas-phase acidities were computed for most of the acids present in the pKa corpus. Leveraging these data, we compiled values for solvation free energies of anions. We then trained several graph neural network models, which can be used as an alternative to QM approaches to quickly estimate these properties. The pKa and gas-phase acidity models accept reaction SMILES strings of the acid dissociation as inputs, whereas the solvation energy model accepts the SMILES string of the anion. Our microscopic pKa model achieves good accuracy, with an overall test mean average error of 0.58 units on unseen solutes and 0.59 on the SAMPL7 challenge (the lowest error so far among multi-solvent models). Our gas-phase acidity model had mean absolute errors slightly above 3 kcal/mol when evaluated against experimental data. The anionic solvation free energy model had mean absolute errors of less than 3 kcal/mol in several test evaluations, comparable to (though less reliable than) several widely-used QM-based solvation models. The models and data are free and publicly available.


---
# Metaverse For Battery Manufacturing: Connecting Students From Different Geographical Locations To Solve Battery Manufacturing Problems In The Virtual Reality Space

## 电池制造的Metaverse: 连接来自不同地理位置的学生，以解决虚拟现实空间中的电池制造问题

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-3484j?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Romain, Lelong

Laboratory practices are essential to prepare students and professionals to drive future innovations in the field of energy storage and conversion. However, universities and industries working in the battery field encounter challenges such as effective and efficient training on complex concepts related to battery production, mostly due to the lack of access to battery prototyping facilities or the limited availability of battery manufacturing pilot lines for training purposes. This Concept introduces an innovative educational platform in Virtual Reality (VR) named Battery Manufacturing Metaverse (BMM). BMM promotes accessibility, inclusion and collaborative learning of Lithium Ion Battery (LIB) manufacturing through an interactive and flexible VR representation of a LIB manufacturing pilot line. It enables collaboration among students and researchers from different geographical locations. Users can explore electrode and cell chemistries and adjust manufacturing parameters with informative feedback from a cell’s composition to the functioning of the manufacturing equipment. BMM does it with real-time collaboration using avatars and voice chat. This platform aims to connect universities of i-MESC (Interdisciplinarity in Materials for Energy Storage and Conversion, previously MESC+), an Erasmus+ MSc. Program, enabling seamless knowledge sharing and training. BMM represents a transformative step in battery research and education, offering an immersive, interactive environment without geographical barriers to pave the way towards global education and safe training in the energy sector.


---
# An Expert-Augmented Deep Learning Approach for Synthesis Route Evaluation

## 一种用于综合路线评估的专家增强深度学习方法

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-tp7rh-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Samuel, Kaski

Selection of efficient multi-step synthesis routes is a fundamental challenge in organic synthesis. Comparing different routes involves numerous parameters, economic considerations, and integration of nuanced chemical knowledge. While computer-aided synthesis planning (CASP) tools can generate synthetic routes, evaluating their overall feasibility and quality continues to rely heavily on human expertise, which is often lacking consistency and reproducibility. To address this, we have developed a data-driven scoring model augmented with human expert knowledge. Experts select key synthesis aspects to score the multi-step routes and apply them to the modeling. The model produces target-specific scores for synthetic routes, achieving a top-1 ranking accuracy of 60% when benchmarked against experimental data and 90% correspondence to the expert synthesis evaluation. Moreover, by incorporating human experts' assessment of routes based on the final route scores, we refined the score into an expert-augmented assessment standard that categorizes routes as Good, Plausible, or Bad universally and interpretably. We demonstrate that this criterion and the resulting route rankings align with expert judgment and synthesis feasibility, that can be obtained from the published reaction data.


---
# Proximity to protected land affects wellbeing, but does so less than socioeconomic factors

## 靠近受保护的土地会影响福祉，但影响程度低于社会经济因素

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-6023815/latest

Climate change, biodiversity, and habitat loss are globally interconnected issues requiring urgent action. Efforts to protect ecosystems often involve creating protected areas, which are increasingly expected to socially benefit surrounding communities. However, protected areas can intensify local conflicts, particularly in regions already experiencing serious human conflict. To better understand the interplay of factors that affect community wellbeing near protected areas, a recent study developed an innovative multi-dimensional index of wellbeing for households across Africa. The index incorporated both tangible and intangible wellbeing measures, such as exposure to violence and perceived security. The researchers then used machine learning to assess the influence of various factors on wellbeing. While proximity to and size of protected areas did affect wellbeing, socioeconomic factors like household income had a greater impact. One benefit of this method is that it could capture variable effects without imposing ideas about the nature or direction of the relationship. For example, protected areas may be harmful for livestock owners due to predators but good for other farmers due to access to ecosystem services. While more research is needed, this study highlights the importance of a broad definition of wellbeing in research like this and that effective protected area management requires working with local stakeholders to understand their varied needs.


---
# Machine Learning Models for Subarachnoid Hemorrhagic Prognosis: A Multicenter Study Considering Circadian Rhythms and Timing Factor

## 蛛网膜下腔出血预后的机器学习模型: 一项考虑昼夜节律和时间因素的多中心研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5999012/latest

BACKGROUND:
Traditional statistical methods(e.g.,logistic regression)are widely used for prognostic prediction in SAH patients but may fail to capture complex non-linear interactions,such as between circadian rhythms and physiological parameters.Machine learning algorithms,particularly SVM with SHAP interpretability,offer a robust framework for handling high-dimensional data and improving predictive accuracy.This study innovatively integrates circadian rhythm-based time intervals(4-hour segments)into the model,addressing a gap in existing tools.
METHODS:
SAH patient data were obtained from the MIMIC-IV 3.1 ICU database and Liaoyang Central Hospital NICU(2018&ndash;2024)and divided into training(85%)and validation(15%)sets.Risk factors were screened using LASSO.Six machine learning models&mdash;LASSO regression,logistic regression,SVM,KNN,Decision Tree,and Random Forest&mdash;were developed and evaluated via 10-fold cross-validation."
RESULTS:
A total of 651 SAH patient data were analyzed(555 for training,96 for validation).Key factors including gender,age,admission time,smoking,diabetes,GCS,HR,SBP,and RPP were used to build the models.The SVM model,chosen for its high interpretability,achieved AUCs of 0.9351 and 0.7958,and F1 scores of 0.8496 and 0.7652,outperforming other models.A risk score calculator based on the SVM model is available at https://liuyongbo0312.shinyapps.io/myshinyapp/
CONCLUSION:
This study developed a predictive model for the prognosis of subarachnoid hemorrhage(SAH)patients using machine learning and identified Support Vector Machine(SVM)as the optimal model.The study found that the time of onset has a certain impact on prognosis,offering new directions for future research and clinical practice. Clinicians can use the SVM model by inputting patient-specific parameters(e.g.,RPP,GCS,admission time segment)into the provided calculator to rapidly identify high-risk patients for targeted interventions.


---
# Enhancing the Outcomes of Mental Health Education for Health Undergraduates: A Realist Review of Effective Approaches

## 增强健康大学生心理健康教育的成果: 对有效方法的现实主义回顾

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5918949/latest

Introduction: Building a supportive and resilient healthcare workforce starts with educating health profession students. Health profession students need mental health literacy to be prepared to support themselves, each other and their future patients with mental health challenges. The aim of this study was to understand the current landscape of teaching and learning approaches to mental health education for undergraduate health profession students. Methodology: A realist review was chosen to explore what works for whom, how, and why in teaching and learning for mental health education for undergraduate health profession students. The search strategy was developed iteratively, with support from a research librarian, and additional searches supplemented the initial search. Following screening in duplicate, the selected studies were appraised for relevance, richness and rigour. Intervention (I), Context (C), Actor (A), Mechanism (M) and Outcome (O) configurations were extracted from the data and analysed for patterns and conceptual areas. Stakeholder and Patient and Public Involvement panels supported the refinement of both the Initial Programme Theory (IPT) and Programme Theories (PT). Results: 78 articles were included. There was evidence for a number of different teaching and learning approaches. The key themes identified were; direct contact with people with lived experience, longitudinal integrative approach to learning, and diversity of experiential and community engaged learning. Conclusion: Our realist review identified three critical programme theories for teaching and learning strategies that foster this literacy, including direct engagement with individuals who have lived experiences, a longitudinal and integrative approach to education, and a diverse array of experiential and community-engaged learning opportunities.


---
# The application of blended teaching in non-pediatric specialty&nbsp;pediatric science education

## 混合式教学在非儿科专业儿科科学教育中的应用

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5918560/latest

Objective Traditional pediatric education often uses a single teaching method, making theoretical knowledge abstract and difficult to grasp. This can lead to passive learning and limit students' understanding and research skills, failing to prepare them for modern challenges. We studied how blended teaching focused on job competency affects non-specialized pediatric science students.&amp;nbsp;
Methods A total of 133 students in our 2019 class on prevention medicine received blended teaching (reform group), and 143 students in the 2018 class on prevention medicine received traditional teaching (control group). Students records were analyzed retrospectively. Students also evaluated their teachers via questionnaires.&amp;nbsp;
Results Over 60% of students expressed satisfaction with blended learning across three metrics: overall satisfaction, preference for blended learning, and willingness to recommend the course and instructors to others.In the assessments, more than 75% of students in the reform group expressed satisfaction with their grades, which fell within the 95 to 100 range. In contrast, the majority of students in the control group scored between 91 to 95, constituting 34.2% of the sample. Following this, 18.9% achieved grades ranging from 96 to 100, and 17.5% attained scores between 86 to 90. Statistically significant differences were observed between the reform group and the control group in terms of student evaluations, exam scores, case writing and in-class quizzes.&amp;nbsp;
Conclusion We integrated preschool tutoring with classroom education in a non-specialized pediatric medicine course, finding it enhances learning, job readiness, academic performance, and student satisfaction. Tailor the approach to subjects, workload, and performance for best results.


---
# A Machine Learning Approach for Early Parkinson's Disease Diagnosis Based on Brain Texture Features from T1-Weighted Imaging

## 基于T1-Weighted图像脑纹理特征的早期帕金森病机器学习诊断方法

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5859401/latest

This study presents an early diagnostic method for Parkinson&amp;rsquo;s disease using T1-weighted imaging texture features combined with machine learning models. T1-weighted imaging data from the PPMI database were preprocessed to extract texture features from various brain regions,including the thalamus, hippocampus, caudate nucleus, amygdala, globus pallidus and putamen. The Random Forest (RF) model demonstrated excellent performance in distinguishing Parkinson&amp;rsquo;s patients from healthy controls, achieving an AUC of 0.90, accuracy of 88.9%, precision of 92.3%, sensitivity of 92.3%, specificity of 80.0%, and an F1 score of 92.3%. A simplified RF model also exhibited strong performance with a prediction accuracy of 77.8%. This method effectively leverages brain texture features to assist in the early diagnosis of Parkinson&amp;rsquo;s disease.


---
# Band-gap-tunable carbon quantum dots for surface-enhanced Raman scattering

## 用于表面增强拉曼散射的带隙可调碳量子点

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5962648/latest

Carbon quantum dots (CQDs) with photoluminescence properties have been widely recognized, however, their inherent surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) activity is rare reported. Herein, we propose a type of band-gap-tunable CQDs derived from metal-phenolic network (MPN) that exhibits excellent SERS performance. MPN-CQDs may be the ideal nonmetallic SERS substrates to accurately elucidate the chemical mechanism (CM) due to their simply controllable bandgap structure. By screening the doped metal elements of MPN, MPN-CQDs can realize the optimal SERS effect with the maximum Raman enhancement factor of 5.5&amp;times;104, also exhibit outstanding SERS reproducibility and stability. We then systematically disclose the interfacial photo-induced charge transfer process and corresponding migration pathways between band-gap-tunable MPN-CQDs and analyte. This class of nonmetallic SERS substrates is finally applied for detection of hemoglobin with high sensitivity; further combined with machine learning algorithm, we have successfully achieved precise identification of the heterogeneity of hemoglobin. This is the first evidence for the tunable SERS performance in CQDs, which also offers the facile avenue for in-depth understanding of CM in nonmetallic materials.


---
# Rhizosphere microbes protect wheat from yellow mosaic virus

## 根际微生物保护小麦免受黄色花叶病毒的侵害

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-6020466/latest

Plants are closely associated with complex microbial communities called microbiomes. The microbiome in the soil surrounding roots, a region called the rhizosphere, is particularly influential and is known to suppress bacterial pathogens. But whether it can suppress viral pathogens as well is less clear. To learn more, researchers looked toward wheat infected by yellow mosaic virus, a disease spread by a microbial parasite that colonizes plant roots. Compared to that of the roots and leaves, the rhizosphere&rsquo;s microbial community composition was a more effective predictor of wheat yield as well as the prevalence of both the parasite that transmits yellow mosaic virus and the yellow mosaic virus itself. Machine learning techniques identified the key beneficial and harmful rhizosphere community members, and further statistical modelling suggested those species impact wheat yield by influencing the rest of the rhizosphere microbiome and the abundance of the yellow mosaic virus-spreading parasite. Reintroducing the beneficial species to the rhizosphere of live wheat increased activation of important signaling pathways, leading to improved plant health and growth. While more research is needed, this study reveals new insight into how the rhizosphere microbiome affects plant health and points to new approaches that can help protect plants from disease.


---
# Adaptation of bacterial species from the International Space Station to life in space

## 来自国际空间站的细菌物种适应太空生活

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-6020451/latest

Microorganisms have remarkable ability to develop specific traits allowing them to survive or even thrive in harsh conditions. In fact, bacteria isolated from the International Space Station (ISS) have adapted to life under the intense radiation and high vacuum pressure of space. These features may be unlike any known on Earth, and identifying them could drive new scientific discoveries. A new tool called Deep Functional Residue Identification (DeepFRI) uses machine learning to improve how microbial adaptation is studied. Recently, it was used to compare bacteria from the ISS with their Earth-bound counterparts to see what makes them unique at the molecular level. DeepFRI discerned the likely functions of genes from 5 newly identified ISS species at unprecedented resolution, revealing shifts enabling their adaptation to space, including increased DNA repair activity and management of microgravity-related stress. Certain traits indicative of pathogenic capabilities were also observed. Remarkably, these adaptations were consistent across the 5 relatively unrelated ISS species, suggesting they have evolved complementary survival strategies. These insights into how life adapts to new environments could propel new innovations supporting human health and survival both in space and on Earth.


---
# Determinants of Student-Teacher Relationship in Health Professions Education

## 卫生职业教育中师生关系的决定因素

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5917286/latest

Background Student-teacher relationships (STR) in health professions education impact students' academic performance, professional development, and mental well-being. Understanding the determinants of these relationships is essential for fostering an effective and supportive learning environment, particularly in the emotionally demanding context of health education.Methods This study used a mixed-methods approach, combining quantitative surveys to measure perceptions of student-teacher relationships with qualitative interviews to explore underlying factors influencing these interactions. Data were collected from students and faculty across diverse health professions programs and analyzed using statistical and thematic analysis techniques.Results A total of 333 students participated in the quantitative survey with the majority being medical students (38.4%). Ten faculty and students participated in the qualitative study. The majority were female students (68.2%), and from the 2nd year of study. Students identified personal qualities of being impressive and inspiring teachers, who are warm, compassionate, and demonstrate trustworthy, well-intentioned, and reliable behavior as the factors instilling confidence in them. Reliability was the most important factor identified for strong STR with 75.8% of medical and 68.8% of pharmacy students sharing the opinion that reliability of the teachers is very important aspect. STR can affect teachers' performance, students' attendance in class, as well as their academic achievements. Students appreciated qualities in their own teachers. The views about teacher qualities, STR, teacher&amp;rsquo;s actions, and effect on teachers and attendance had diverse responses from students. They agreed on most points, while displaying significant differences among different year students, colleges, and different grade point average categories on others.Conclusion This bidirectional relationship affects students in terms of attendance, discipline, and academic achievement, and teachers in self-confidence, and performance as an educator. Health professional students consider teacher characteristics like a friendly approach, reliability, and trustworthiness important for STR, and motivation to learn. Both teachers and students view that technology should be appropriately used to benefit STR.


---
# Aerosol trends dominate over global warming-induced cloud feedback in driving recent changes in marine low clouds

## 气溶胶趋势在全球变暖引起的云反馈中占主导地位，从而推动了海洋低云的最新变化

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5901920/latest

Over the past two decades, anthropogenic emission reductions and global warming have impacted marine low clouds through aerosol-cloud interactions (ACI) and cloud feedback, yet their quantitative contributions remain unclear. This study employs a deep learning model (CNNMet&amp;minus;Nd) and Community Earth System Model version 2 (CESM2) to disentangle these effects. CNNMet&amp;minus;Nd reveals that aerosol-driven changes in cloud droplet number concentration dominate near-global marine low cloud shortwave radiative effect changes (&Delta;CRE), contributing 0.42&amp;thinsp;&amp;plusmn;&amp;thinsp;0.08 Wm⁻&amp;sup2; per 20 years, compared to 0.05&amp;thinsp;&amp;plusmn;&amp;thinsp;0.37 Wm⁻&amp;sup2; from cloud feedback. CESM2 effectively reproduces the predominant influence of aerosol reductions on &Delta;CRE by CNNMet&amp;minus;Nd, lending us confidence for a stronger estimate of global effective radiative forcing due to ACI (ERFaci) of -1.29 Wm⁻&amp;sup2; since the preindustrial era. These findings highlight the critical role of ACI in shaping marine low cloud trends and its broader climate implications, especially under ongoing emission reduction efforts.


---
# Skin Lesion Classification and Detection Using Machine Learning in Dermatology

## 皮肤病学中使用机器学习的皮肤病变分类和检测

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5976118/latest

Skin diseases, also known as dermatological conditions, are conditions that affect the skin. Factors such as changing lifestyles, environmental pollution, increased stress levels, and inadequate access to healthcare in certain regions can contribute to the growing incidence of skin disorders. The traditional approach of diagnosing skin disease may not always provide accurate results, and the process would be very time-consuming and costly and is not even feasible in multiple regions. The proposed model will assist and ensure an accurate diagnosis of the patient's skin condition. In the proposed method, different algorithms (ANN, CNN, SVM, RF) are implemented and stacked in search of achieving more accurate result. The model is trained in such a manner that the diagnosis can be done based on the visual inputs given by the patients. The model is developed and trained to diagnose and classify multiple skin diseases. The datasets used contain images for training and testing purposes. The results generated by all the models used depend on how well the model is trained.


---
# Modelling Behaviour in Uncertainty: A Simulation Study of Heads-Up Poker.

## 不确定性中的行为建模: 平视扑克的模拟研究。

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-6015303/latest

Modelling human behaviour in situations of incomplete information is a domain with significant implications for the development of AI, empirically understanding facets of psychology, decision theory, sociology, and economics. Due to the suitability of poker to the structure of this particular problem, this study employs the game to propose a model for human behaviour using a probability distribution over the array of possible decisions, incorporating parameters that reflect real characteristics: confidence(⍺), risk appetite(&beta;), and bluff frequency. It uses different combinations of these parameters to run Monte-Carlo simulations of heads-up poker games to understand what makes a particular strategy successful. The simulations revealed that strategies with slightly higher confidence and higher risk appetite yielded the best results in situations closer to reality, while slight underconfidence and lower risk appetite fared better against an "ideal" opponent who has no biases. The proposed model offers a computationally efficient tool for deep learning-based poker AI, with applications in opponent modelling, behavioural economics, and agent-based modelling.


---
# ML-Driven Optimal Design of Multispectral Instruments for the Characterization of Resident Space Objects

## 用于表征驻留空间物体的多光谱仪器的ML驱动优化设计

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5997666/latest

The characterization of resident space objects (RSOs) has long been an important aspect of space domain awareness (SDA). Recently, spectral imagery has emerged as a viable sensing modality with the potential to enhance existing RSO-characterization capabilities, especially when used alongside machine-learning (ML) models. Deploying a spaceborne hyperspectral sensor, however, can increase size, weight, power, and cost (SWaP-C). On the other hand, multispectral sensors, which collect significantly fewer bands than hyperspectral sensors, are less complex to develop and deploy. This paper presents an optimization procedure that finds the minimal number of multispectral bands required for training high-performance ML classifiers. The optimization procedure was used to perform a design study for a notional SDA mission responsible for classifying three types of RSOs: active payloads, rocket bodies, and space debris. Simulated hyperspectral signatures of each class were generated and used to initialize the optimal-design procedure. These hyperspectral signatures consisted of 1,574 spectral bands. The procedure was able to design an optimized multispectral system with only five bands. Despite the 99.7% reduction in the number of spectral bands, the overall performance of the ML-driven RSO-classification models only decreased by 1.9%. This result suggests that future SDA missions may be able to replace hyperspectral sensors with bespoke multispectral ones while still meeting requirements related to RSO-characterization capability.


---
# Soil Moisture Retrieval with High Spatial-temporal Resolution by Fusion of CYGNSS and SAR Data

## 融合CYGNSS和SAR数据的高时空分辨率土壤水分反演

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5993379/latest

As the probability and intensity of global drought events continue to increase, soil moisture is an important basis for drought monitoring and drought assessment, and the need to accurately obtain soil moisture distribution information with high spatial-temporal resolution is becoming extremely important. CYGNSS data based on spaceborne GNSS-R has the advantage of high temporal resolution, while SAR data can provide information on surface features with high spatial resolution, and the combination of the two provides favourable conditions for obtaining soil moisture with high spatial-temporal resolution. This paper proposes a soil moisture retrieval method with high spatial-temporal resolution by the fusion of spaceborne GNSS-R (CYGNSS) and SAR (Sentinel-1) data. This method constructs a function relationship between surface reflectivity of spaceborne GNSS-R and backscattering coefficient of SAR, with the aim of preparing for fusion of CYGNSS and Sentinel-1. By fusing sentinel-1 data, a two-layer machine learning framework based on CYGNSS data is constructed to retrieve the soil moisture with high spatial-temporal resolution, and the retrieval results are compared with the measured data and soil moisture products of SMAP. The results indicate that, the surface reflectivity of spaceborne GNSS-R shows an approximate linear relationship with the backscattering coefficient of SAR. The constructed first-layer framework is able to supplement CYGNSS surface reflectivity data, and verifies the feasibility of converting backscattering coefficients of SAR to the CYGNSS surface reflectivity. The soil moisture retrieval by the two-layer framework method in this paper is comparable to the soil moisture product of SMAP in terms of retrieval accuracy (average ubRMSE&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.070cm3/cm3, average R&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;0.65) at the same spatial resolution (3 km), and the temporal resolution is improved by 3.9 times on average, which confirms the feasibility of soil moisture retrieval by CYGNSS at 3 km spatial resolution.


---
# Skin cancer diagnosis (SCD) using EfficientNet-Wavelet and  Gray Wolf Optimization (GWO)

## 使用有效小波和灰狼优化 (GWO) 进行皮肤癌诊断 (SCD)

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5976470/latest

One of the most dangerous types of cancer is skin cancer (SC), which is seen in the form of skin lesions in the patient and can threaten the patient's life if not treated on time. With early diagnosis of this disease, more effective treatment methods can be used and the progression of the disease can be prevented. Various machine learning and deep learning methods have been developed for early skin cancer diagnosis. However, one of the benefits of deep learning is the ability to learn enormous volumes of data which abundances the trend towards deep learning methods. In this article, a method based on the combination of EfficientNet and Wavelet is presented to classify skin cancer images. Various combinations of the EfficientNet approach, including B0, B1, B2 and B3, are considered for this purpose. Also, Gray Wolf Optimization (WGO) is used to find the optimal values of the features. Two datasets of ISIC-2016 and ISIC-2017 are considered for model evaluation. Based on the obtain results, the EfficientNetB3+Wavelet+GWO model obtained the best result on the ISIC-2016 data and is able to achieve an accuracy of 0.9814 and an F-measure of 0.9827. Furthermore, in the ISIC-2017 data set, the EfficientNetB1+Wavelet+GWO model achieves the best performance with an accuracy of 0.9795 and an F-measure of 0.9797 in ISIC-2017 data.


---
# Identifying NAFLD-specific microbiome signatures in a Chinese population

## 在中国人群中鉴定NAFLD特异性微生物组特征

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-6018411/latest

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a chronic liver disorder that affects about 30% of the population worldwide. Many factors contribute to the development and progression of NAFLD, and the involvement of the gut microbiome was recently suggested. But NAFLD often co-occurs with other metabolic disorders, and identifying strong microbial patterns specific to NAFLD has been challenging. To close this gap, researchers studied publicly available data from over 1200 Chinese individuals with metabolic diseases, including NAFLD, obesity, type 2 diabetes, hypertension, and atherosclerosis. Using machine learning models, they were able to identify microbial patterns that are highly specific to NAFLD. The team combined these patterns with a strong analytical framework and were able to propose NAFLD-specific microbial communities that are unique to overweight and lean populations. While more work is needed, the findings reveal NAFLD-specific microbial patterns and can hopefully be used to guide future research on developing live biotherapeutic products to stop the progression of NAFLD.

