# Palm-sized single-shot full-color incoherent digital holographic camera system with white light

## 手掌大小的单发全彩白光非相干数字全息摄像系统

Link: https://phys.org/news/2025-02-palm-sized-shot-full-incoherent.html

In a recent study, researchers developed a portable digital holographic camera system that can obtain full-color digital holograms of objects illuminated with spatially and temporally incoherent light in a single exposure. They employed a deep-learning-based denoising algorithm to suppress random noise in the image-reconstruction procedure, and succeeded in video-rate full-color digital holographic motion-picture imaging using a white LED.


---
# Numerical methods for unraveling inter-particle potentials in colloidal suspensions: A comparative study for two-dimensional suspensions

## 解开胶体悬浮液中颗粒间势的数值方法: 二维悬浮液的比较研究

Link: https://pubs.aip.org/aip/jcp/article/162/7/074103/3336085/Numerical-methods-for-unraveling-inter-particle

<span class="paragraphSection">We compare three model-free numerical methods for inverting structural data to obtain interaction potentials, namely, iterative Boltzmann inversion (IBI), test-particle insertion (TPI), and a machine-learning (ML) approach called ActiveNet. Three archetypal models of two-dimensional colloidal systems are used as test cases: Weeks–Chandler–Anderson short-ranged repulsion, the Lennard-Jones potential, and a repulsive shoulder interaction with two length scales. Additionally, data on an experimental suspension of colloidal spheres are acquired by optical microscopy and used to test the inversion methods. The methods have different merits. IBI is the only choice when the radial distribution function is known but particle coordinates are unavailable. TPI requires snapshots with particle positions and can extract both pair- and higher-body potentials without the need for simulation. The ML approach can only be used when particles can be tracked in time and it returns the force rather than the potential. However, it can unravel pair interactions from any one-body forces (such as drag or propulsion) and does not rely on equilibrium distributions for its derivation. Our results may serve as a guide when a numerical method is needed for application to experimental data and as a reference for further development of the methodology itself.</span>


---
# Accurate prediction of electron correlation energies of topological atoms by delta learning from the Müller approximation

## 通过m ü ller近似的delta学习精确预测拓扑原子的电子相关能

Link: https://pubs.aip.org/aip/jcp/article/162/7/074102/3336084/Accurate-prediction-of-electron-correlation

<span class="paragraphSection">FFLUX is a polarizable machine-learning force field that deploys pre-trained kernel-based models of quantum topological properties in molecular dynamics simulations. Despite a track record of successful applications, this unconventional force field still uses Lennard-Jones parameters to account for dispersion effects when performing in-bulk simulations. However, optimal Lennard-Jones parameters are system-dependent and not easy to calibrate. Fortunately, physics-informed dispersion energies can be obtained from the two-particle density matrix (2PDM) of any system using correlated wavefunctions. The only challenge is that the 2PDM is a humongous object whose calculation is very time-consuming and memory-greedy. In this proof-of-concept study, we utilize the Δ-learning method to address both problems using a small set of water trimers. More specifically, we obtain pure two-electron correlation energies with the aug-cc-pVDZ basis set at the cost of Müller-approximated 2PDM calculated at a very small basis set, 6-31+G(d). We also benchmark different Δ-learning tasks designed by changing the baseline and target method and/or the basis set. Our experiments suggest that two-electron correlation energies of weakly relaxed water trimers can be accurately predicted via Δ-learning with a maximum absolute error of 1.30 ± 0.32 kJ/mol traded against a colossal computational speed-up of roughly 40 times.</span>


---
# Quantum data parallelism in quantum neural networks

## 量子神经网络中的量子数据并行性

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevResearch.7.013177

**Authors:** Sixuan Wu, Yue Zhang, and Jian Li

Author(s): Sixuan Wu, Yue Zhang, and Jian Li<br /><p>Quantum neural networks hold promise for achieving lower generalization error bounds and enhanced computational efficiency in processing certain datasets. However, the integration of quantum superposition in data parallelism—a key aspect in the applications of classical neural network—has been large…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. Research 7, 013177] Published Tue Feb 18, 2025


---
# Holographic classical shadow tomography

## 全息经典阴影层析成像

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.111.054306

**Authors:** Shuhan Zhang, Xiaozhou Feng, Matteo Ippoliti, and Yi-Zhuang You

Author(s): Shuhan Zhang, Xiaozhou Feng, Matteo Ippoliti, and Yi-Zhuang You<br /><p>We introduce “holographic shadows,” a new class of randomized measurement schemes for classical shadow tomography that achieves the optimal scaling of sample complexity for learning geometrically local Pauli operators at any lengthscale, without the need for fine-tuning protocol parameters such as c…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 111, 054306] Published Tue Feb 18, 2025


---
# Dynamics of ferroelectricity in monolayer ${\mathrm{AgCr}}_{2}{\mathrm{S}}_{4}$ calculated with a machine learning potential

## 用机器学习势计算单层 $ {\ mathrm{AgCr }}_{ 2 }{\ mathrm{S }}_{ 4}$ 铁电性的动力学

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.111.085417

**Authors:** Jinming Wu, Haoran Zhu, Xuanyi Li, Guoliang Yu, Hongyu Yu, and Changsong Xu

Author(s): Jinming Wu, Haoran Zhu, Xuanyi Li, Guoliang Yu, Hongyu Yu, and Changsong Xu<br /><p>Ferroelectric materials hold significant potential for high-density nonvolatile memory applications. Understanding the dynamic mechanism of ferroelectricity is crucial for maximizing the utilization of these materials. In this study, we investigate the ferroelectric properties of monolayer ${\mathrm…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 111, 085417] Published Tue Feb 18, 2025


---
# Satellite image classification with neural quantum kernels

## 基于神经量子核的卫星图像分类

Link: http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2632-2153/ada86c

**Authors:** Pablo Rodriguez-Grasa, Robert Farzan-Rodriguez, Gabriele Novelli, Yue Ban and Mikel Sanz

Achieving practical applications of quantum machine learning (QML) for real-world scenarios remains challenging despite significant theoretical progress. This paper proposes a novel approach for classifying satellite images, a task of particular relevance to the earth observation industry, using QML techniques. Specifically, we focus on classifying images that contain solar panels, addressing a complex real-world classification problem. Our approach begins with classical pre-processing to reduce the dimensionality of the satellite image dataset. We then apply neural quantum kernels-quantum kernels derived from trained quantum neural networks-for classification. We evaluate several strategies within this framework, demonstrating results that are competitive with the best classical methods. Key findings include the robustness of or results and their scalability, with successful performance achieved up to 8 qubits.


---
# Integrating Machine Learning-Based Pose Sampling with Established Scoring Functions for Virtual Screening

## 基于机器学习的姿态采样与已建立的评分函数相结合，用于虚拟筛选

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-96kzg?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Hosein, Fooladi

Abstract Classical docking methods have dominated the field of structure-based virtual screening (VS) for decades. Recently, several machine learning (ML)-based docking approaches have been introduced, presenting a promising avenue for advancing VS technologies. In this work, we report on the integration of DiffDock-L, one of the most promising ML-based pose sampling methods, into VS workflows by combining it with the established Vina and Gnina scoring functions. We assess the integrated approach regarding its VS effectiveness, pose sampling quality, and complementarity to classical docking methods, represented by AutoDock Vina. Our results on the DUD-Z benchmark data set show that pose sampling with DiffDock-L and AutoDock Vina yields comparable performance. In contrast, the choice of the scoring function has a decisive impact on VS success. In general, DiffDock-L generates physically plausible and biologically relevant poses in most cases, confirming it as a viable alternative to classical docking algorithms.


---
# Identifying Regional Differences in Correlations Between Transportation Infrastructure and Carbon Emissions with Data Analysis and Machine Learning

## 通过数据分析和机器学习识别交通基础设施与碳排放之间相关性的区域差异

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5214755/latest

Transportation supports global connections in the world. Urban planning requires much thought about transportation to ensure connectivity and simplicity within a city. However, what should also be considered is the environmental impact of their decisions. The research aims to understand how different types of transportation infrastructure impact carbon emissions. Each country was categorized by region, and the study looked into six different regions. The ideal features for predicting the carbon emissions per capita were determined using random forest regression, a machine-learning model that creates many decision trees to make predictions. The carbon emissions per capita with the percentage of roads paved, the feature deemed most valuable to predicting carbon emissions per capita by the random forest regressor, in each region was compared. With linear regression, a relationship was determined in each region to understand the variance from the line and the slope of the line and to know how the data progresses as the values increase. The results showed that economic and governmental factors were often at the root of environmental factors, and transportation infrastructure reflects economic strength. This was understood from both correlations between carbon emission changes and financial events, as well as from policy reviews of countries that were anomalies in the data, showing that they had differing policies regarding transportation. In this research, transportation infrastructure was proven essential to environmental factors. The study also indicates that the jobs of urban planners and road workers play a significant role in how a country approaches its carbon-neutral goals.


---
# Towards the Development of a Tool to Measure Socio-Emotional Competencies

## 开发一种衡量社会情感能力的工具

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5807465/latest

Socio-Emotional Learning (SEL) underpins the development of Socio-Emotional Competencies (SEC), essential for successful life navigation. Despite global recognition of SEL's importance, few local studies have explored its impact on Filipino learners. To address this, researchers developed the Assessment of Social and Emotional Competencies (ASEC) to measure students' SEL. The ASEC was tested with 1,211 Filipino students. Results showed high internal consistency (r=.76-.94) and good model fit (TLI=.91-.97, RMSEA=.02-.04). Predictive analyses revealed that higher-grade students had lower socio-emotional competence. Researchers recommend enhancing scales with weak consistency and exploring the link between socioemotional competencies and academic performance.


---
# Rational Design of Safer Inorganic Nanoparticles via Mechanistic Modeling-informed Machine Learning

## 通过机械建模的机器学习合理设计更安全的无机纳米粒子

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5960303/latest

The safety of inorganic nanoparticles (NPs) remains a critical challenge for their clinical translation. To address this, we developed a machine-learning (ML) framework that predicts NP toxicity both in vitro and in vivo, leveraging physicochemical properties and experimental conditions. A curated in vitro cytotoxicity dataset was used to train and validate binary classification models, with top-performing models undergoing explainability analysis to identify key determinants of toxicity and establish structure-toxicity relationships. External testing with diverse mesoporous silica NPs validated the framework&rsquo;s predictive accuracy for in vitro settings. To enable organ-specific toxicity predictions in vivo, we integrated a physiologically-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) model into the ML pipeline to quantify NP exposure across organs. Retraining the ML models with PBPK-derived exposure metrics yielded robust predictions of organ-specific nanotoxicity, further validating the framework. This PBPK-informed ML approach can thus serve as a potential Novel Alternative Method (NAM) to streamline NP safety assessment, enabling the rational design of safer NPs and expediting their clinical translation.


---
# An Investigation into Seasonal Variations in Energy Forecasting for Student Residences

## 对学生住宅能量预测的季节性变化的调查

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5632243/latest

This research provides an in-depth evaluation of various machine learning models for energy forecasting, focusing on the unique challenges of seasonal variations in student residential settings. The study assesses the performance of baseline models, such as LSTM and GRU, alongside state-of-the-art forecasting methods, including Autoregressive Feedforward Neural Networks, Transformers, and hybrid approaches. Special attention is given to predicting energy consumption amidst challenges like seasonal patterns, vacations, meteorological changes, and irregular human activities that cause sudden fluctuations in usage. The findings reveal that no single model consistently outperforms others across all seasons, emphasizing the need for season-specific model selection or tailored designs. Notably, the proposed Hyper Network-based LSTM and MiniAutoEncXGBoost models exhibit strong adaptability to seasonal variations, effectively capturing abrupt changes in energy consumption during summer months. This study advances the energy forecasting field by emphasizing the critical role of seasonal dynamics and model-specific behavior in achieving accurate predictions.


---
# Effect of Simulation-based Perioperative Education on the Acquisition of Self-Competence and Knowledge among Undergraduate Student Nurses: A Randomised Control Study

## 基于模拟的围手术期教育对本科护生自我能力和知识获取的影响: 一项随机对照研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5998849/latest

Background Perioperative nurses need a considerable amount of competencies in surgical processes, anaesthesia, medical and surgical conditions, and the technological advancements that are necessary for managing patients. However, in Malawi, lack of access to specialised training and poor learning conditions in hospitals compromise the ability of student nurses to acquire the required competencies, highlighting a need for innovations in the teaching and learning of perioperative nursing. Studies have demonstrated that simulation offers many advantages as a teaching strategy. Currently, there is limited evidence to support the use of simulation in Malawian undergraduate student nurses. Therefore, this study aimed at assessing the effect of simulation-based perioperative nursing education among undergraduate student nurses.Methods This study utilised a test‒retest randomised control trial to assess the effect of simulation-based education on the acquisition of self-competence and knowledge. The study utilised an adapted Malawian student version of the Perceived Perioperative Competence Scale-Revised for self-competence and a knowledge test to assess the gain in knowledge. The study simulated the implementation of the World Health Organisation&amp;rsquo;s Surgical Safety Checklist (WHO SSCL) on a hernia repair simulated scenario with a total of 52 student nurses.Results The findings of this study showed that the simulation of the WHO SSCL significantly improved self-competence and knowledge acquisition.Conclusion The findings of this study suggest that student nurses can increase their self-competence and acquire new knowledge by participating in the WHO SSCL simulation. Additionally, using the WHO SSCL-based simulation could enhance knowledge of the checklist itself and promote its use.


---
# Radiographic Anatomy and Clinical Value of Modified Corner Approach in Interlaminar Endoscopic Lumbar Discectomy

## 改良角入路椎板间内窥镜下腰椎间盘摘除术的影像学解剖及临床价值

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5972684/latest

Objective To explore the imaging anatomical characteristics and clinical value of the modified corner approach targeting the intersection of S1 superior endplate and facet joint.Method The CT and MRI data of 100 patients were used to measure the distance between the target and the dura sac, pedicle, L5 nerve and S1 nerve. The learning curve of IELD surgery based on modified corner approach was determined by prospectively collecting data from 80 patients with IELD.Results The average distance between the target and the dura sac was 4.59&amp;thinsp;&amp;plusmn;&amp;thinsp;1.74mm. The average distance between the target and the inferior border of the L5 nerve was 10.14&amp;thinsp;&amp;plusmn;&amp;thinsp;1.72mm, rang from 7.52&amp;ndash;13.54 mm. The average distance between the target and the outer edge of the S1 nerve was 0.51&amp;thinsp;&amp;plusmn;&amp;thinsp;0.91mm, rang from &amp;minus;&amp;thinsp;0.12&amp;thinsp;~&amp;thinsp;2mm. The average distance between the target and the inner edge of S1 pedicle was 3.77&amp;thinsp;&amp;plusmn;&amp;thinsp;1.04mm. The distance between the target and the dura sac and the inner edge of the pedicle is mainly affected by the age of the patient.Conclusion The modified corner approach is a simple, safe and repeatable surgical approach with the intersection of the superior endplate and facet joint as the puncture target. For patients without or with mild facet joint degeneration, the puncture target can be appropriately moved inward by 2mm.


---
# Climate change in medical education: A cross-sectional study assessing knowledge and perceptions among future health care providers in Egypt

## 医学教育中的气候变化: 一项横断面研究，评估埃及未来医疗保健提供者的知识和看法

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5897093/latest

Background: Preparing future healthcare providers to address the adverse effects of climate change on human health begins in medical school. This study evaluated the integration of climate change into the medical curriculum and assessed the knowledge, perceptions, and awareness of climate change and its health impacts among future healthcare providers in Egypt.Methods: A cross-sectional study was conducted among 895 students from five universities, including public, private, and Al-Azhar medical schools. An online self-reported questionnaire was used to assess the students&amp;rsquo; understanding of climate change, its health impacts, and their perceptions regarding its integration into the medical curriculum and the role of healthcare professionals in combating climate change. Data were analyzed using appropriate descriptive and inferential statistics.Results: Over half of the participants (55.1%) reported the inclusion of climate change health impacts in their curriculum. Climate change knowledge, perceptions, and health impacts had mean scores of 2.39&amp;thinsp;&amp;plusmn;&amp;thinsp;1.09 (out of 4), 30.9&amp;thinsp;&amp;plusmn;&amp;thinsp;4.8 (out of 41), and 8.54&amp;thinsp;&amp;plusmn;&amp;thinsp;2.98 (out of 12), respectively. The inclusion of climate change content in curricula had no significant impact on these scores (p value&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;&amp;gt;&amp;thinsp;0.05). Nonetheless, two-thirds of participants (66.7%) agreed that climate change health impacts should be included in the curriculum, and 71.4% expressed interest in learning more about it.Conclusion: The study reveals a significant gap in the integration of climate change health impacts into the medical curriculum in Egypt. These findings emphasize the need for improved integration of climate change education to better prepare future healthcare providers.

