# Insights into defect cluster formation in non-stoichiometric wustite (Fe<sub>1−<i>x</i></sub>O) at elevated temperatures: accurate force field from deep learning

## 对高温下非化学计量方铁矿 (Fe&lt;sub&gt;1 −&lt;i&gt;x&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/sub&gt;O) 中缺陷簇形成的见解: 来自深度学习的精确力场

Link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41524-025-01527-3

**Authors:** Alberto N. Conejo

<p>npj Computational Materials, Published online: 14 February 2025; <a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/s41524-025-01527-3">doi:10.1038/s41524-025-01527-3</a></p>Insights into defect cluster formation in non-stoichiometric wustite (Fe<sub>1−<i>x</i></sub>O) at elevated temperatures: accurate force field from deep learning


---
# Comparing AI versus optimization workflows for simulation-based inference of spatial-stochastic systems

## 比较基于模拟的空间随机系统推理的AI与优化工作流程

Link: http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2632-2153/ada0a3

**Authors:** Michael Alexander Ramirez Sierra and Thomas R Sokolowski

Model parameter inference is a universal problem across science. This challenge is particularly pronounced in developmental biology, where faithful mechanistic descriptions require spatial-stochastic models with numerous parameters, yet quantitative empirical data often lack sufficient granularity due to experimental limitations. Parameterizing such complex models therefore necessitates methods that elaborate on classical Bayesian inference by incorporating notions of optimality and goal-orientation through low-dimensional objective functions that quantitatively encapsulate target system behavior. In this study, we contrast two such inference workflows and apply them to biophysically inspired spatial-stochastic models. Technically, both workflows employ simulation-based inference (SBI) methods: the first leverages a modern deep-learning technique known as sequential neural posterior estimation, while the second relies on a classical optimization technique called simulated annealing. We evaluate these workflows by inferring the parameters of two complementary models for the inner cell mass (ICM) lineage differentiation in the blastocyst-stage mouse embryo. This developmental biology system serves as a paradigmatic example of a highly robust and reproducible cell-fate proportioning process that self-organizes under strongly stochastic conditions, such as intrinsic biochemical noise and cell–cell signaling delays. Our results reveal that while both methods provide consistent model parameter estimates, the modern SBI workflow yields significantly richer inferred distributions at an equivalent computational cost. We identify the computational scenarios that favor the modern SBI method over its classical counterpart, and propose a plausible strategy to exploit the complementary strengths of both workflows for enhanced parameter space exploration.


---
# Quantum resources of quantum and classical variational methods

## 量子资源与经典变分方法

Link: http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2632-2153/adaca2

**Authors:** Thomas Spriggs, Arash Ahmadi, Bokai Chen and Eliska Greplova

Variational techniques have long been at the heart of atomic, solid-state, and many-body physics. They have recently extended to quantum and classical machine learning, providing a basis for representing quantum states via neural networks. These methods generally aim to minimize the energy of a given ansatz, though open questions remain about the expressivity of quantum and classical variational ansätze. The connection between variational techniques and quantum computing, through variational quantum algorithms, offers opportunities to explore the quantum complexity of classical methods. We demonstrate how the concept of non-stabilizerness, or magic, can create a bridge between quantum information and variational techniques and we show that energy accuracy is a necessary but not always sufficient condition for accuracy in non-stabilizerness. Through systematic benchmarking of neural network quantum states, matrix product states, and variational quantum methods, we show that while classical techniques are more accurate in non-stabilizerness, not accounting for the symmetries of the system can have a severe impact on this accuracy. Our findings form a basis for a universal expressivity characterization of both quantum and classical variational methods.


---
# Coupled CANN-DEM simulation in solid mechanics

## 固体力学中的CANN-DEM耦合模拟

Link: http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2632-2153/adaf74

**Authors:** Stefan Hildebrand, Jonathan Georg Friedrich, Melika Mohammadkhah and Sandra Klinge

A general, unified neural network approach as replacement for the finite element method without the need for analytic expressions for material laws is suggested. The complete simulation process from the material characterization to simulations on a structural level takes place in the new neural network framework. The drawback of many conventional analytic expressions of material laws to require large numbers of experiments for parametrization is addressed by an integrated inverse approach. Specifically, an adaptation of the Deep Energy Method is combined with a Constitutive Artificial Neural Network (CANN) and trained on measured displacement fields and prescribed boundary conditions in a coupled procedure. Tests on compressible and incompressible Neo-Hookean solids with up to twelve CANN parameters show high accuracy of the approach and very good generalization of CANNs. A small extent of data is required for robust and reliable training.


---
# Reinforcement learning-based architecture search for quantum machine learning

## 基于强化学习的量子机器学习架构搜索

Link: http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2632-2153/adaf75

**Authors:** Frederic Rapp, David A Kreplin, Marco F Huber and Marco Roth

Quantum machine learning (QML) models use encoding circuits to map data into a quantum Hilbert space. While it is well known that the architecture of these circuits significantly influences core properties of the resulting model, they are often chosen heuristically. In this work, we present a approach using reinforcement learning techniques to generate problem-specific encoding circuits to improve the performance of QML models. By specifically using a model-based reinforcement learning algorithm, we reduce the number of necessary circuit evaluations during the search, providing a sample-efficient framework. In contrast to previous search algorithms, our method uses a layered circuit structure that significantly reduces the search space. Additionally, our approach can account for multiple objectives such as solution quality and circuit depth. We benchmark our tailored circuits against various reference models, including models with problem-agnostic circuits and classical models. Our results highlight the effectiveness of problem-specific encoding circuits in enhancing QML model performance.


---
# Domain knowledge-based deterministic graph traversal method for white blood cell classification

## 基于领域知识的确定性图遍历白细胞分类方法

Link: http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2632-2153/adb126

**Authors:** Jeneessha P and Vinoth Kumar Balasubramanian

White blood cells (WBCs) play a crucial role in human immunity by defending the body against harmful antigens. Classifying WBCs into their five distinct types provides valuable information for assessing human health and identifying various medical conditions. Computer vision models in the literature utilize machine learning and deep learning techniques, to attain high classification accuracy, but they involve complex architectures. In contrast, the proposed work leverages domain knowledge about WBCs to construct a directed graph and applies a deterministic traversal method to the graph to perform classification. The proposed method is trained and tested using multiple datasets namely, the Blood Cell Count and Detection (BCCD) and LISC datasets to evaluate the performance on varying datasets. The performance metrics include accuracy, precision, recall, and F1-score. The results demonstrate the effectiveness of the approach, achieving 99.13% accuracy, 99.25% precision, 99.25% recall, and 99.25% F1 score, on the BCCD dataset. 97.05% accuracy, 97.04% precision, 96.93% recall, and 96.94% F1 score on the LISC dataset making it efficient for WBC classification task.


---
# Medical image segmentation assisted with clinical inputs via language encoder in a deep learning framework

## 在深度学习框架中通过语言编码器辅助临床输入的医学图像分割

Link: http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2632-2153/adb371

**Authors:** Hengrui Zhao, Biling Wang, Deepkumar Mistry, Jing Wang, Michael Dohopolski, Daniel Yang, Weiguo Lu, Steve Jiang and Dan Nguyen

Introduction: Auto-segmentation of tumor volumes and organs at risk (OARs) is a critical step in cancer radiotherapy treatment planning, where rapid, precise adjustments to treatment plans are required to match the patient anatomy. Although auto-segmentation has been clinically accepted for most OARs, auto-segmentation of tumor volumes, particularly clinical target volumes (CTVs), remains a challenge. This difficulty arises because images alone are often insufficient to capture the necessary information for accurate delineation of microscopic tumor invasion invisible on the image itself. Methods: We propose a deep learning-based medical image segmentation framework designed to mimic the clinical process of delineating CTVs and OARs. At its core, the model performs precise segmentation of medical images while enhancing accuracy by integrating clinical information in text format. A transformer-based text encoder converts textual clinical data into vectors, which are incorporated into the segmentation process with image features. This integration bridges the gap between traditional automated segmentation methods and clinician-guided, context-rich delineations. The framework’s effectiveness is demonstrated through a prostate segmentation example in the context of radiation therapy for localized prostate cancer, where incorporating clinical context significantly impacts the delineation process. Results: In our experiments, we included additional clinical information potentially influencing clinicians’ prostate segmentation. The results show that our proposed method not only outperforms the baseline model, but also surpasses current state-of-the-art methods, with or without clinical contexts. Furthermore, our method demonstrates high performance even with limited data. Conclusion: This proposed segmentation framework has shown to significantly improve auto-segmentation, particularly for CTVs, in cancer radiotherapy.


---
# High Throughput Ligand Dissociation Kinetics Predictions using Site-Identification by Ligand Competitive Saturation

## 通过配体竞争饱和度使用位点识别进行高通量配体解离动力学预测

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-5bc2t-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** David, Weber

The dissociation or off rate, koff, of a drug molecule has been shown to be more relevant to efficacy than affinity for selected systems motivating the development of predictive computational methodologies. These are largely based on enhanced-sampling molecular dynamics (MD) simulations that come at a high computational cost limiting their utility for drug design where a large number of ligands needs to be evaluated. To overcome this, presented is a combined physics- and machine learning (ML)-based approach that uses the physics-based site-identification by ligand competitive saturation (SILCS) method to enumerate potential ligand dissociation pathways and calculate ligand dissociation free energy profiles along those pathways. The calculated free energy profiles along with molecular properties are used as features to train ML models, including tree- and neural network approaches, to predict koff values. The protocol is developed and validated using 329 ligands for thirteen proteins showing robustness of the ML workflows built upon the SILCS physics-based free energy profiles. The resulting SILCS-Kinetics workflow offers a highly efficient method to study ligand dissociation kinetics, providing a powerful tool to facilitate drug design including the ability to generate quantitative estimates of atomic and functional groups contributions to ligand dissociation.


---
# Convolutional Neural Network Based Characterization of Atomic Diffusion from Spectroscopic Imaging

## 基于卷积神经网络的光谱成像原子扩散表征

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-p15v7?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Protyush, Sahu

In this paper, we explore the opportunities of using deep learning methods to characterize stochastic processes such as atomic diffusion. Here, we use a convolutional neural network (CNN) to characterize the extent of diffusion in a small, narrow trench. We use diffusion images to train the CNN on the diffusion profiles and categorize them into two classes. The probability of this categorization is indicative of the amount of atomic diffusion. We further explore the effects of CNN complexity (number of nodes) and different flatten functions on the loss function and the accuracy of the CNN model. We also explore different NN architectures to understand the effects of multiple hidden layers on the training and validation loss/accuracy


---
# Solvation free energies of anions: from new reference data to predictive models

## 阴离子的溶剂化自由能: 从新的参考数据到预测模型

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-8bj2t-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Kai, Leonhard

Predicting the physicochemical properties of ionizable solutes, including solubility and lipophilicity, is of broad significance. Such predictions rely on the accurate determination of solvation free energies for ions. However, the limited availability of high-quality reference data poses a challenge in developing accurate, inexpensive computational prediction methods. In this study, we address both issues of data quality and availability. We present three databases and models related to ionic phenomena: 1 (1) 8,241 pK a datapoints across 8 solvents, (2) 5,536 gas-phase acidities from DLPNO- CCSD(T) QM calculations, and (3) 6,090 solvation free energies of anions across 8 solvents obtained from a thermodynamic cycle. We also report 6,088 solvation free energies of neutral conjugate solutes computed using the COSMO-RS method. The pKa data were obtained from the iBonD database, cleaned, and combined with a separate compilation of trustworthy reference pKa data. Gas-phase acidities were computed for most of the acids present in the pKa corpus. Leveraging these data, we compiled values for solvation free energies of anions. We then trained several graph neural network models, which can be used as an alternative to QM approaches to quickly estimate these properties. The pKa and gas-phase acidity models accept reaction SMILES strings of the acid dissociation as inputs, whereas the solvation energy model accepts the SMILES string of the anion. Our microscopic pKa model achieves good accuracy, with an overall test mean average error of 0.58 units on unseen solutes and 0.59 on the SAMPL7 challenge (the lowest error so far among multi-solvent models). Our gas-phase acidity model had mean absolute errors slightly above 3 kcal/mol when evaluated against experimental data. The anionic solvation free energy model had mean absolute errors of less than 3 kcal/mol in several test evaluations, comparable to (though less reliable than) several widely-used QM-based solvation models. The models and data are free and publicly available.


---
# Improving Pitting Corrosion Prediction Accuracy in 316L Stainless Steel through the Synergy of Predictive Machine Learning and Reflective Microscopy

## 通过预测机器学习和反射显微镜的协同作用提高316L不锈钢的点蚀预测精度

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-xqprl?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Frédéric , Kanoufi

Accurately forecasting the locations of future pit formation sites on stainless steels (SS) holds significant practical value in both fundamental science and the corrosion industry, yet it poses a significant experimental challenge due to the need to localize imperfections in the passive film at a sub-nanometer scale. In this study, we tackle this issue by utilizing the combination of in-situ Reflective Microscopy (RM) instrumentation, optical modeling, and predictive machine learning (ML) methods, focusing on the prediction of pits location in SS316L alloy in chloride-rich media. Our findings indicate that the appearance of future pits is most often linked to slight ( 0.5%) decrease in the intensity of light reflected from the SS surface, yet this relationship is not always reciprocal. Optical modeling reinforced with ex-situ XPS suggest a chromium oxide deficiency in the surface films over these zones. This study provides proof of concept that RM enforced with ML approaches can be used as an accessible, highly precise tool to define zones of preferential pitting corrosion and highlights future promising directions for developing predictive corrosion monitoring systems.


---
# EMAT-Based Crack Detection in Railway Tracks Using Multi-Domain Signal Processing and Scalogram-Driven Deep Learning

## 基于EMAT的铁路轨道裂缝检测，使用多域信号处理和尺度图驱动的深度学习

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-6005043/latest

This paper presents a novel crack detection approach in railroads using electromagnetic acoustic transducers (EMATs) that can be integrated with multi-domain signal processing techniques and scalogram-driven deep learning approach. In the study nine different scenarios across three critical sections of the railway track were investigated. Several useful signals processing techniques, including time-domain, frequency-domain, Power Spectrum, Periodogram, Welch Method, short-time Fourier transform (STFT), and wavelet transform, are implemented to evaluate the data acquired through EMAT sensors. Wavelet transformations are applied to the proposed segments to generate scalogram images, which are used as an input in deep learning model training. When results were compared to conventional machine learning classifiers, the deep learning model performs better, exhibiting higher accuracy in identifying different types of cracks from scalogram images. The results demonstrate that EMAT-based fracture identification, advanced signal processing, and deep learning can greatly enhance railway track inspection and safety, even though the system currently processes data in batches rather than in real time. Future work will focus on real-time data acquisition and further optimization of the deep learning architecture.


---
# Integrated transcriptome analysis and combinatorial machine learning to construct a homeostatic model of acetylation for ccRCC and validate the key gene GCNT4

## 整合转录组分析和组合机器学习构建ccRCC乙酰化的稳态模型并验证关键基因GCNT4

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-6004394/latest

Background Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is one of the most common malignant tumors of the urinary system. Protein acetylation plays a key role in regulating cellular processes and cancer signaling pathways. This study explores the potential biological mechanisms of ccRCC from the perspective of acetylation.Methods This study obtained RNA-seq data and clinical information of ccRCC from TCGA and ICGC, and single-cell RNA sequencing datasets from the GEO database. Ten machine learning algorithms and their 101 combinations were used to analyze the prognostic significance of acetylation-related differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and to construct a prognostic risk model. GSEA was used to analyze the enrichment of different signaling pathways in high-risk and low-risk groups, and the correlation between immune infiltration and risk scores was assessed. Finally, the function of the key gene GCNT4 was verified through cell experiments.Results This study identified 84 acetylation-regulated key genes with significant expression differences between tumor and normal tissues, closely linked to patient prognosis. The LASSO&amp;thinsp;+&amp;thinsp;RSF combination model performed best, and the model could accurately predict patient prognosis. The survival of patients in the high-risk group was significantly worse than that in the low-risk group. High expression of GCNT4 was associated with better survival prognosis and was expressed at higher levels in normal tissues than tumor tissues. Overexpression of GCNT4 significantly inhibited the proliferation, invasion, and migration of renal cancer cells and may affect acetylation by regulating the levels of O-GlcNAc modification in cells.Conclusion This study constructed a ccRCC acetylation homeostasis model via transcriptome analysis and machine learning, validating GCNT4 as a key gene. High expression of GCNT4 is associated with better survival prognosis and affects acetylation by regulating O-GlcNAc modification levels, inhibiting the proliferation and migration of renal cancer cells, providing a new potential target for the treatment of ccRCC.


---
# Redefining Early Osteoarthritis Detection: Deep Learning Meets Historical Radiography

## 重新定义早期骨关节炎检测: 深度学习符合历史x线摄影

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5983981/latest

The Kellgren-Lawrence (KL) grading system, established by Lawrence and Aitken Swan [1] and Kellgren and Lawrence [2] in the early 1950s, remains the clinical standard for radiographic osteoarthritis (OA) classification despite well‐documented inter‐ and intra‐observer variability [3-6]. Early studies revealed that occupational factors, particularly in coal miners, are strongly associated with knee OA [1,2]. However, subsequent research has highlighted that, over reliance on osteophytes, ambiguous criterion especially for KL Grade 1 (doubtful OA) lead to diagnostic uncertainty [3-6]. Comparative evaluations of multiple radiographic scoring systems based on joint space narrowing (JSN) and osteophyte formation [7-10] have further underscored limited sensitivity of the KL system to early cartilage damage and inconsistent reproducibility [11-16].


---
# E-Learning as an Alternative to Face-to-Face Teaching in Postgraduate Medical Education in a Resource-Limited Setting: Lessons from the COVID- 19 Pandemic &ndash; Experience from a Tertiary Teaching Hospital in Ethiopia

## 在资源有限的情况下，电子学习可替代研究生医学教育中的面对面教学: 来自COVID- 19大流行的教训-埃塞俄比亚一家三级教学医院的经验

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5989178/latest

Background
The need for applying physical distancing in the era of COVID-19 greatly hampered conventional face-to-face classroom teaching. This necessitated the incorporation of electronic learning (E-learning) in postgraduate medical education to ensure training continuity of residency programs. However, the perception of medical residents towards this new E-learning approach is not well studied. We assessed the perceived satisfaction of residents and the barriers to implementing E-learning in postgraduate medical education.
Methods
We conducted a cross-sectional study from July 1 to December 30, 2020, among 200 residents from the departments of Internal Medicine, Surgery, Orthopedics, Neurology, and Obstetrics andGynecology (OBGYN) at the School of Medicine of Addis Ababa University. Self-administered questionnaires were used tocollect data on perception of E-learning and factors that affected it. Data were entered using Epidata and analyzed using Stata 14.0. Factor analysis determined 21 items from six components explained 65% of data variation. Multivariable logistic regression analysis was fitted to identify factors associated with the six components of satisfaction.
Results
Among the 200 participants, 71.5% were male; 35.5% and 29.5% were from the Surgery and Internal Medicine departments, respectively. The median age of the participants was29 years. Only 24% of the participants had prior E-learning experience before the pandemic, and 15.5% reported spending&thinsp;&amp;gt;&thinsp;10% of their salary to access the internet for academic purposes. About half (51.5%) of the participants reported satisfaction with E-learning, and 43% supported that E-learning improved teacher-learner collaboration. Satisfaction with E-learning was less among Surgery and OBGYN residents compared to residents from Internal Medicine [AOR:0.3;95% CI 0.11&ndash;0.85] and [AOR:0.1;95% CI 0.03&ndash;0.4], respectively. In addition, high internet cost, using a mobile device for internet access, poor computer skills, and lack of prior E-learning exposure were all negatively associated with perceived E-learning experience
Conclusion
Experiences of residents and their perceptions on E-learning were mixed. E-learning as a substitute to face-to-face classroom learning was unpopular especially among Surgery and OBGYN residents. Several barriers to E-learning were identified. We recommend university departments to tailor E-learning teaching methods and interventions and improve infrastructure and resident computer skills to enhance current E-learning experiences.
Clinical Trial Number: Not Applicable


---
# Teachers&rsquo; Perspectives on the Role of Speech and Language Pathologists in the Rehabilitation of Children with Dyslexia: A Survey-Based Study

## 教师对言语和语言病理学家在阅读障碍儿童康复中的作用的看法: 一项基于调查的研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-6000788/latest

Background Dyslexia is a neurological disorder that affects reading and writing abilities due to persistent difficulties in word recognition, decoding, and spelling. These conditions may impact numerous aspects of learning, such as reading, writing, mathematics, and communication. Dyslexia is the most well-known learning disability. speech and language pathologists (SLPs) are critical in helping people with learning disabilities. This study aimed to measure the knowledge and awareness of a sample of Egyptian teachers about the role of SLPs in rehabilitating children with dyslexia.Methods A survey was conducted using a questionnaire of 39 multiple-choice questions. provided to 100 teachers from 10 different national schools from two areas in Cairo and Giza. All teachers graduated from the same college, and none work as SENCO (special education coordinator). The questionnaire was provided online using the Monkey Survey, and the answers were collected within one week. Each participant was scored on the correctness of their answers out of the maximum score of 39.Results Only six questions were answered correctly by &amp;gt;&amp;thinsp;70% of the participants, and 50% answered correctly 1/3 of the questions. The mean score of the 100 teachers was 19&amp;thinsp;&amp;plusmn;&amp;thinsp;4. (range: 6&amp;ndash;31). The median percentage of the score was 46.2% (range: 15.4%-79.5%). The median score was reached by 56% of the teachers. The scores were not affected by age or sex of participants. The scores in the 6th of October City schools were significantly higher than in the 5th settlement (20.1&amp;thinsp;&amp;plusmn;&amp;thinsp;3.9 vs. 17.0&amp;thinsp;&amp;plusmn;&amp;thinsp;3.0, respectively, p&amp;thinsp;&amp;lt;&amp;thinsp;0.001). The minimum success score (28, 70%) was reached only by two female teachers; their school has a special needs class and a supporting unit.Conclusion Teachers in Egypt's national schools lack knowledge about the role of SLPs in rehabilitating children with dyslexia. Only two out of 100 teachers answered 70% of the survey questions correctly. Teachers need to be educated and trained about dyslexia and its management.


---
# Isolating the Primary Drivers of Fire Risk to Structures in WUI regions in California

## 隔离加利福尼亚州WUI地区建筑物火灾风险的主要驱动因素

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5776626/latest

The destructive impacts of Wildland-Urban Interface (WUI) fires on people, property and the environment have dramatically increased, especially in California. Critical factors influencing structure protection during wildfires, including home hardening (e.g., vents, siding, roof, eaves, window, construction year), defensible space (vegetation and surrounding features), exposure to flames and embers, and structure separation are well known but their interrelated impacts are not quantified. Here, we find that structure separation and exposure significantly influence the probability of loss, underscoring the role of large conflagrations in driving widespread destruction. Machine learning models combined with previously unavailable exposure data enhance the predictive accuracy of structure loss up to 82%. Home hardening and defensible space, especially closest to the home, are still vital and effective mitigation measures, cutting hypothetical structures losses by 52%. Our results offer data-driven actionable insights for prioritizing mitigation strategies to protect vulnerable communities and structures in the WUI.

