# Machine Learning‐Driven Mass Discovery and High‐Throughput Screening of Fluoroether‐Based Electrolytes for High‐Stability Lithium Metal Batteries

## 用于高稳定性锂金属电池的基于氟醚的电解质的机器学习驱动的质量发现和高通量筛选

Link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/anie.202424493?af=R

**Authors:** Qingqing Jia, 
Hongguang Liu, 
Xueping Wang, 
Qiantu Tao, 
Lifeng Zheng, 
Junjie Li, 
Wei Wang, 
Ziteng Liu, 
Xu Gu, 
Tianyu Shen, 
Shaoyi Hou, 
Zhong Jin, 
Jing Ma

Angewandte Chemie International Edition, EarlyView.


---
# Metastable states assisted homogeneous nucleation in supercooled liquid aluminum alloys: Insights from a phenomenologically coupled atomistic, phase-field, and machine learning investigation

## 亚稳态辅助过冷液态铝合金中的均相成核: 来自现象学耦合原子，相场和机器学习研究的见解

Link: https://pubs.aip.org/aip/jcp/article/162/8/084501/3337068/Metastable-states-assisted-homogeneous-nucleation

<span class="paragraphSection">Crystallization due to liquid → solid transformation is observed in many natural and engineering processes. Extant literature indicates that crystallization in supercooled liquids is initiated by precursory metastable phases or states, also called non-classical nucleation. For face-centered cubic (FCC) materials, latest experimental and computational studies suggest that metastable hexagonal-closed packed (HCP) structures facilitate equilibrium FCC formation. However, the underlying nucleation mechanism remains unclear. Here, we examine structural changes and energetic barriers associated with such a non-classical mechanism, by performing molecular dynamics (MD) simulations using pure Al, Al-0.5 at. %Cu, and Al-0.5 at. %Ni (all FCC-formers) and phenomenologically coupling MD results with phase-field (PF) modeling. Such a coupling involved initializing PF simulation domains and constructing Landau polynomials—consistent with MD observations. Unsupervised machine learning was utilized to capture nuclei structures from MD simulations, while neural networks helped in extracting equilibrium interfacial energies from PF modeling. Atomistic simulations showed that precursory nuclei are comprised of collection of metastable-HCP states with medium ranged ordering. The pockets of HCP states later transform to critical nuclei—containing an FCC core and an outer layer of HCP. PF modeling qualitatively replicated the precursory-to-critical nuclei transformation and showed that the energetic barriers between the precursory and critical nuclei are substantially smaller than predictions obtained from classical nucleation theory. Together, these observations permitted us to propose a holistic non-classical mechanism that links triangular motifs within Al-based supercooled liquids to the critical nuclei via in-liquid structural transformations.</span>


---
# Prediction of hydration energies of adsorbates at Pt(111) and liquid water interfaces using machine learning

## 使用机器学习预测Pt(111) 和液态水界面处吸附物的水合能

Link: https://pubs.aip.org/aip/jcp/article/162/8/084106/3337064/Prediction-of-hydration-energies-of-adsorbates-at

<span class="paragraphSection">Aqueous phase heterogeneous catalysis is important to various industrial processes, including biomass conversion, Fischer–Tropsch synthesis, and electrocatalysis. Accurate calculation of solvation thermodynamic properties is essential for modeling the performance of catalysts for these processes. Explicit solvation methods employing multiscale modeling, e.g., involving density functional theory and molecular dynamics have emerged for this purpose. Although accurate, these methods are computationally intensive. This study introduces machine learning (ML) models to predict solvation thermodynamics for adsorbates on a Pt(111) surface, aiming to enhance computational efficiency without compromising accuracy. In particular, ML models are developed using a combination of molecular descriptors and fingerprints and trained on previously published water–adsorbate interaction energies, energies of solvation, and free energies of solvation of adsorbates bound to Pt(111). These models achieve root mean square error values of 0.09 eV for interaction energies, 0.04 eV for energies of solvation, and 0.06 eV for free energies of solvation, demonstrating accuracy within the standard error of multiscale modeling. Feature importance analysis reveals that hydrogen bonding, van der Waals interactions, and solvent density, together with the properties of the adsorbate, are critical factors influencing solvation thermodynamics. These findings suggest that ML models can provide rapid and reliable predictions of solvation properties. This approach not only reduces computational costs but also offers insights into the solvation characteristics of adsorbates at Pt(111)–water interfaces.</span>


---
# Peptide classification from statistical analysis of nanopore sensing experiments

## 基于纳米孔传感实验统计分析的肽分类

Link: https://pubs.aip.org/aip/jcp/article/162/8/084107/3337061/Peptide-classification-from-statistical-analysis

<span class="paragraphSection">Peptide classification using nanopore-based devices promises to be a breakthrough method in basic research, diagnostics, and analytics. However, the measured blockage currents suffer from a low signal-to-noise ratio and a high information density that has hitherto not been fully deciphered. Some simple machine learning approaches using average current blockade depths and dwell-times have been investigated to improve this situation. In this work, a comprehensive statistical analysis of nanopore current signals is performed and demonstrated to be sufficient for classifying up to 42 peptides with over 70% accuracy. Two sets of features, the statistical moments and the catch22 set, are compared both in their representations and after training small classifier neural networks. We demonstrate that complex features of the events, captured in both the catch22 set and the central moments, are key to classifying peptides with otherwise similar mean currents. These results highlight the efficacy of purely statistical analysis of nanopore data and suggest a path forward for more sophisticated classification techniques.</span>


---
# Predicting properties of quantum systems by regression on a quantum computer

## 在量子计算机上通过回归预测量子系统的性质

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevResearch.7.013201

**Authors:** Andrey Kardashin, Yerassyl Balkybek, Vladimir V. Palyulin, and Konstantin Antipin

Author(s): Andrey Kardashin, Yerassyl Balkybek, Vladimir V. Palyulin, and Konstantin Antipin<br /><p>Quantum computers can be considered as a natural means for performing machine learning tasks for inherently quantum labeled data. Many quantum machine learning techniques have been developed for solving classification problems, such as distinguishing between phases of matter or quantum processes. Si…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. Research 7, 013201] Published Tue Feb 25, 2025


---
# Autoencoder-assisted study of directed percolation with spatial long-range interactions

## 具有空间远程相互作用的定向渗流的自动编码器辅助研究

Link: http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2632-2153/adb370

**Authors:** Yanyang Wang, Yuxiang Yang and Wei Li

Determining the universality class of reaction–diffusion processes with long-range interactions in non-equilibrium phase transitions is both challenging and intriguing. Identifying critical points is fundamental for studying the phase transition characteristics of these universality classes. Unlike Monte Carlo simulations of statistical system observables, machine learning methods can extract evolutionary information from clusters of such systems, enabling a faster approach to phase transition regions. We developed a method that uses the one-dimensional encoding output of a stacked autoencoder (SAE) to determine the critical point in systems undergoing (1+1)-dimensional directed percolation with spatial long-range interactions. We validate this method by examining the power-law behavior of particle density at the critical point, which strongly supports our approach. As the system adheres to the scaling relation at the critical point, we conducted extensive simulations at this critical probability to determine the dynamic exponent z. In addition, the SAE is also capable of identifying the characteristic time of critical states. Finally, we tested two other heavy-tailed distributions that generate random step lengths: the Lévy distribution and the Cauchy distribution, which introduce different global spreading mechanisms. This method remains effective for determining the critical points in these systems. Our findings highlight the promising applications of SAE techniques for processes involving long-range interactions.


---
# An Analysis of Components and Enhancement Strategies for Advancing Memristive Neural Networks

## 用于推进忆阻神经网络的组件和增强策略的分析

Link: https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202412549?af=R

**Authors:** Hyungjun Park, 
Joon‐Kyu Han, 
Seongpil Yim, 
Dong Hoon Shin, 
Tae Won Park, 
Kyung Seok Woo, 
Soo Hyung Lee, 
Jae Min Cho, 
Hyun Wook Kim, 
Taegyun Park, 
Cheol Seong Hwang

Advanced Materials, Volume 37, Issue 8, February 25, 2025.


---
# Elastocaloric Thermal Battery: Ultrahigh Heat‐Storage Capacity Based on Generative Learning‐Designed Phase‐Change Alloys

## 弹性热电池: 基于生成学习设计的相变合金的超高蓄热能力

Link: https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202412198?af=R

**Authors:** Pengfei Dang, 
Jinlong Hu, 
Yuehui Xian, 
Cheng Li, 
Yumei Zhou, 
Xiangdong Ding, 
Jun Sun, 
Dezhen Xue

Advanced Materials, Volume 37, Issue 8, February 25, 2025.


---
# QC-Augmented GNNs for Few-Shot Prediction of Amorphous Polymer Properties via Multi-Scale Microstructures

## QC增强的gnn通过多尺度微结构对非晶态聚合物性能进行少量预测

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-nt0jx?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Zhiming, LI

Accurate prediction of polymer properties is essential for material design. However, traditional methods often struggle with efficiency due to the limited availability of experimental data and insufficient understanding of polymer microstructures, particularly in the case of small datasets for amorphous polymers. To address this hallenge, we introduce a novel paradigm based on "local clusters", structural motifs whose properties are efficiently computed using quantum chemistry (QC) methods. These clusters, simulated across multiple scales, serve as key descriptors that encapsulate essential microstructural features of polymers. By integrating these QC-derived descriptors with graph convolutional networks (GNNs) or neural networks (NNs), we have developed Locluster, a multiscale, microstructure-driven predictive model tailored for data-scarce environments in amorphous polymer research. Notably, Locluster requires only 2–5 descriptors and as few as two dozen training samples to accurately predict critical polymer properties, including density, refractive index, dielectric constant, and glass transition temperature. The model achieves predictive performance comparable to approaches trained on large datasets, thereby effectively mitigating the data scarcity challenge in polymer informatics. This work provides an effective option for the rational design and accelerated discovery of novel polymeric materials.


---
# Unsupervised Machine Learning Prediction of Novel 1:3 Intermetallic Phase with Synthesis of TbIr3 (PuNi3-type) as Experimental Validation

## 以合成TbIr3 (PuNi3-type) 为实验验证的新型1:3金属间相的无监督机器学习预测

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-cc0dq?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Sangjoon, Lee

Crystal structure classification of binary intermetallic structures with 1:3 stoichiometry was done with simple machine learning algorithms. The successful crystal structure segregation is attributed to the novel set of descriptors comprising both compositional and structural features. The dataset includes 97 features, and a total of 2366 reported compounds adopting six different structure types.  The unsupervised learning method based on principal component analysis (PCA) followed by clustering using the K-means method was applied to cluster compounds belonging to different structure types. Using the recommendation engine, we predicted the expansion of the clusters and then identified cluster/structure-type overlap.  PuNi3-type was among the clearly segregated structure types according to the unsupervised model, and a novel representative, TbIr3, was selected for experimental validation, adopting this structure. The final supervised machine learning predictions were done with PLS-DA, SVM, and XGBoost confidently predicting the novel TbIr3 to belong to the PuNi3-type with an accuracy of 96.6%, 99.8%, and 99.9% respectively. Analysis of the features reveals that the main contributing features to the AB3 crystal structure segregation are the average shortest distance count of A element, the total number of sites of B atom, and the total number of second shortest distance count of B atom. Given that the predicted PuNi3-type of the TbIr3 phase could be controversial due to the extensive study of the Tb–Ir phase diagram and the reports of the TbIr3 in two different structure types, we conducted two independent experimental structural validations to confirm the existence of the TbIr3 in PuNi3-type structure. Subsequent theoretical validation explains that Ir-Ir contacts are the primary stability factor of TbIr3 in PuNi3-type structure over other structure types.


---
# Open-Source Generation of Sigma Profiles: Impact of Quantum Chemistry and Solvation Treatment on Machine Learning Performance

## Sigma配置文件的开源生成: 量子化学和溶剂化处理对机器学习性能的影响

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-jggvw?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Yamil, Colón

The combination of machine learning (ML) models with chemistry-related tasks requires the description of molecular structures in a machine-readable way. The nature of these so-called molecular descriptors has a direct and major impact on the performance of ML models and remains an open problem in the field. Structural descriptors like SMILES strings or molecular graphs lack size-independence and can be memory intensive. Machine-learned descriptors can be of low dimensionality and constant size but lack physical significance and human interpretability. Sigma profiles, which are unnormalized histograms of the surface charge distributions of solvated molecules, combine physical significance with low dimensionality and size-independence, making them a suitable candidate for a universal molecular descriptor. However, their widespread adoption in ML applications requires open access to sigma profile generation, which is currently not available. This work details the development of an open-source software for generating sigma profiles. Also presented are studies on the effect of different settings on the efficacy of the generated sigma profiles at predicting thermophysical material properties when used as inputs to a Gaussian Process as a simple surrogate ML model. We find that a higher level of theory does not translate to more accurate results. We also provide further recommendations for sigma profile calculation and use in ML models.


---
# The density-based many-body expansion for polypeptides and proteins

## 多肽和蛋白质的基于密度的多体扩展

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-jgx5p?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Johannes R., Vornweg

Fragmentation schemes enable the efficient quantum-chemical treatment of large biomolecular systems, and provide an ideal starting point for the development of accurate machine-learning  potentials for proteins. Here, we present a fragment-based method that only used calculations for single-amino acids and their dimers, and is able to reduce the fragmentation error in total energies to ca. 1 kJ/mol per amino acid for polypeptides and proteins across different structural motifs. This is achieved by combining a two-body extension of the molecular fractionation with conjugate caps (MFCC) scheme with the density-based many-body expansion (db-MBE), thus extending the applicability of the db-MBE from molecular clusters to polypeptides and proteins.


---
# Application of Machine Learning for Bit-Formation Matching in drilling operations

## 机器学习在钻井作业钻头-地层匹配中的应用

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5556031/latest

Efficient bit formation matching is imperative for the success and cost-effectiveness of drilling operations. At present, drill bit selection predominantly depends on historical data and experiential knowledge. While machine learning, particularly Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs), has gained prominence in bit selection, other diverse and impactful algorithms such as XGBOOST and Random Forest (RF), are often overlooked. This paper involves the systematic application and comparative analysis of XGBOOST, RF, and ANN, alongside an optimization approach using Genetic Algorithm. The study comprehensively considers various influential factors including formation properties, drilling fluid characteristics, bit design, and operational parameters. In this study, we achieved promising results with the highest classification accuracy for bit selection recorded at 0.97 using the XGBOOST model, while RF and ANN yielded accuracies of 0.91 and 0.93 respectively. Additionally, we obtained impressive R squared values of 0.991, 0.975, and 0.953 for predicting the Rate of Penetration (ROP) using the XGBOOST, ANN, and RF models respectively. These algorithms, coupled with the optimization techniques, aims to establish a robust framework for nuanced and accurate bit-formation matching. The results obtained hold significant potential for minimizing costs and optimizing resource allocation &amp;amp; utilization during the planning and execution of drilling projects in the oil and gas industry.

